GEM 2023/2024 
Global Report
25 Years and Growing
IKINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC INCLUSION, SMALL
BUSINESS, EMPLOYMENT AND SKILLSIKINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION,
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
AND INNOV ATION
ANNIVERSARY1999 2024
THGlobal Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportAUTHORS
GEM Global
Professor Stephen Hill, DSc (Lead Author)
Aileen Ionescu-Somers, PhD
Professor Alicia Coduras, PhD
GEM Chile
Professor Maribel Guerrero, PhD, Arizona State University, USA, and Universidad del Desarrollo, Chile
GEM Israel
Professor Emeritus Ehud Menipaz, P .Eng, Ben Gurion University
GEM Morocco
Professor Fatima Boutaleb, PhD, Hassan II University of Casablanca
GEM Poland
Professor Przemysław Zbierowski, PhD, University of Economics in Katowice
GEM UK
Professor Sreevas Sahasranamam, PhD, University of Glasgow
GEM USA
Professor Jeffrey Shay, PhD, Babson College
In collaboration with GEM National Teams, the GEM Global Data Team — Francis Carmona and Alicia 
Coduras — produced the Economy Profiles in Part 2 and all figures and tables, Stephen Hill wrote the 
Policy Roadmaps, while Kevin Anselmo produced and edited various feature articles.
Although GEM data were used in the preparation of this report, the interpretation and use of the data are 
the sole responsibility of the authors.
FOUNDING ORGANIZATIONS
Published by the Global Entrepreneurship Research Association, London Business School,  
Regents Park, London NW1 4SA, UK 
Please cite as:  GEM (Global Entrepreneurship Monitor) (2023). Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 
2023/2024 Global Report: 25 Years and Growing. London: GEM.
Cover:
freepik.com (foreground image), nohat.cc (globe)
Design and production:
Witchwood Production House http://www.witchwoodhouse.com
BBR Design https://bbrdesign.co.uk
© 2024 The authors and the Global Entrepreneurship Research Association (GERA)1 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportReport Sponsors
CARTIER WOMEN’S INITIATIVE
The Cartier Women’s Initiative is an annual international entrepreneurship program which aims to 
drive change by empowering women impact entrepreneurs. Founded in 2006, the program is open to 
women-run and women-owned businesses from any country and sector that aim to have a strong and 
sustainable social and/or environmental impact.
At the heart of the Cartier Women’s Initiative is the vision of a world where every woman impact 
entrepreneur can realize her full potential. To reach this vision, obtaining and monitoring hard 
data related to the state of women’s entrepreneurship is critical in enrolling more support into the 
ecosystem and to drive collaboration. Cartier Women’s Initiative partnered with GEM as it was in 
search of a partner to track, monitor and assess women entrepreneurship activities.
THE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT FRIBOURG
The School of Management Fribourg (HEG-FR) is a bilingual public business school located in 
Fribourg, Switzerland, and a member of the University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Western 
Switzerland (HES-SO). Its Institute of Small and Medium Enterprises houses the Swiss chapter of GEM 
research, which is headed by Professor Rico Baldegger, PhD, in collaboration with other colleagues.
One of the forerunners in Switzerland for training and interdisciplinary research in the area of 
entrepreneurship and SMEs, the School of Management Fribourg has a particular thematic interest 
in research on women’s entrepreneurship and impacts of entrepreneurship on the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC INCLUSION, SMALL BUSINESS, 
EMPLOYMENT AND SKILLS, MOROCCO
The Ministry of Economic Inclusion, Small Business, Employment and Skills is responsible, within 
the framework of the legislative and regulatory texts in force, for drawing up and implementing 
government policy in the areas of work, employment, vocational training, very small businesses and 
self-employment, and for evaluating their action plans. It steers strategic entrepreneurship programs.
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION, SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 
AND INNOVATION, MOROCCO
The Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Innovation oversees and regulates higher 
education in the country. The ministry plays a crucial role in shaping the future of education in 
Morocco by developing policies and strategies that promote academic excellence, scientific research 
and innovation.
UNIVERSITÉ HASSAN II, MOROCCO
Hassan II University of Casablanca is one of the top public universities in Morocco. Through its 
various research, training and support programs, the University contributes to producing the skills 
needed to ensure and foster the entrepreneurship ecosystem at three levels: (1) raising awareness 
and reinforcing the entrepreneurial spirit; (2) training in business creation, project management and 
SMEs; and (3) supporting project leaders.
IKINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC INCLUSION, SMALL
BUSINESS, EMPLOYMENT AND SKILLS
IKINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION,
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
AND INNOV ATION2 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportContents
Key GEM Definitions and Abbreviations  8
Acknowledgements  11
Foreword  12
About GEM  15
Executive Summary  16
2023/2024 Global Report Findings  17
Part 1 Introduction  23
1. Introduction to the 2023/2024 
Global Report  24
1.1 Introduction  24
1.2 The global context in 2023  26
1.3 Why is entrepreneurship important?  27
1.4 Global Report structure  27
1.5 GEM 2023 participating economies  29
1.6 Changes in household income  30
1.7 Conclusions  31
2. The GEM Conceptual Framework 
and Methodology  32
2.1 Introduction  32
2.2 The GEM methodology and measures of 
entrepreneurship  33Part 2 Analysis  35
3. Entrepreneurship: Public 
Attitudes and Perceptions  36
3.1 What are the social foundations of 
entrepreneurship?  36
3.2 What do you know about starting a business?  36
3.3 But can you start a business?  39
3.4 Business intentions  42
3.5 Can you invest in someone else’s new 
business?  43
3.6 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  44
4. Levels of Entrepreneurial Activity  45
4.1 What is entrepreneurial activity?  45
4.2 Where is entrepreneurial activity highest?  45
4.3 What is the relationship between levels of 
early-stage and established business activity?  47
4.4 Did the pandemic reduce entrepreneurial 
activity?  48
4.5 Which sectors are the new businesses in?  51
4.6 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  52
5. The Social and Economic Impacts 
of Entrepreneurship  53
5.1 What determines the impact of new starts?  53
5.2 How many people will the new business 
employ?  53
5.3 How innovative are new business products or 
services?  55
5.4 How competitive are new businesses?  57
5.5 How export-intensive are new businesses?  58
5.6 Are new startups focused on the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG s)?  61
5.7 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  633 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report6. The Diversity of Entrepreneurs  64
6.1 Who are the entrepreneurs?  64
6.2 Are male and female entrepreneurship levels 
different?  64
6.3 Are younger people more likely to start new 
businesses and older people more likely to 
own established businesses?  68
6.4 Are graduates more likely than 
non-graduates to start a new business?  71
6.5 Do changes in income make starting a 
business more likely or less likely?  72
6.6 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  73
7. Navigating the Entrepreneurial 
Landscape  74
7. 1 Why does this matter?  74
7 .2 Is it getting harder to start a new business?  74
7. 3 Did the COVID-19 pandemic create new 
opportunities?  77
7.4 Are entrepreneurs ready for the future?  78
7. 5 Are entrepreneurs minimizing their 
environmental impacts, or maximizing their 
social impacts?  79
7. 6 Are entrepreneurs aware of the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDG s)?  81
7. 7 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  84
8. Why Start (or Stop) a Business?  85
8.1 Introduction: the significance of businesses 
coming and going  85
8.2 Why start a business?  85
8.3 How many adults exited a business?  89
8.4 How resilient are entrepreneurs?  91
8.5 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  92Part 3 National Contexts 
and Individual Economy 
Profiles  93
9. Where Are the Best Places to 
Start a Business?  95
9.1 How can context be defined and measured?  95
9.2 Are most places good in parts?  96
9.3 Have entrepreneurial environments 
recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic?  97
9.4 Can context be summarized in one number?  99
9.5 So where is the best place to start a business 
in 2023?  101
9.6 What are the perceived priorities of new 
businesses?  101
9.7 Do women entrepreneurs get the support 
and access to resources they need?  102
9.8 What are the policy implications of this 
chapter?  105
Economy Profiles  106
Part 4 Appendix Tables  205
GEM Indicators  206Join our research project
It is di/uniFB03   cult for policymakers to make 
informed decisions without having the right 
data. Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) 
ﬁ  lls this void. GEM is the only global research 
project that collects data on entrepreneurship 
directly from the source—entrepreneurs!
It is your one-stop shop for everything you 
need to know about entrepreneurship in 
your country, region or city.
Be part of future Global Reports, providing 
a snapshot of entrepreneurial activity across 
the world. You can contribute towards 
National Reports that include international 
benchmarking, local context and national 
entrepreneurship policy recommendations.
For more information, visit www.gemconsortium.org or email info@gemconsortium.org
“GEM o/uniFB00  ers academics the opportunity to be 
part of a prestigious network, explore various 
dimensions of entrepreneurship and gain a full 
picture about the entrepreneurial activity of a 
country.”
Virginia Lasio, Team Leader of 
GEM Ecuador and Professor at the ESPAE 
Graduate School of Management5 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFigures
Figure 1.1 The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  26
Figure 1.2 The percentage of adults reporting a change in household income in 2023  31
Figure 2.1 The GEM Conceptual Framework  32
Figure 2.2 The entrepreneurial process and GEM indicators  34
Figure 3.1 Knowing someone who has started a business in the past two years (% adults)  37
Figure 3.2 In my country, it is easy to start a business (% adults agree)  38
Figure 3.3 In the next six months, there will be good opportunities to start a business where 
I live (% adults agree)  38
Figure 3.4 I have the knowledge, skills and experience to start my own business (% adults agree)  39
Figure 3.5 You would not start a business for fear it might fail (% of those agreeing there are 
good opportunities locally)  41
Figure 3.6 The percentage of men and of women who see good opportunities also agreeing that 
they would not start a business because it might fail  42
Figure 3.7 Are you expecting to start a business in the next three years? (% of adults responding 
yes)  43
Figure 3.8 Investing in someone else’s new business (% of adults)  44
Figure 4.1 Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) and Established Business Ownership 
(EBO) (both % adults)  46
Figure 4.2 Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) plotted against Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) (both % adults)  47
Figure 4.3 Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA), 2019, 2021 and 2023 (% adults)  49
Figure 4.4 Established Business Ownership (EBO), 2019, 2021 and 2023 (% adults)  49
Figure 4.5 Business Services and Consumer Services (% TEA)  51
Figure 5.1 Job growth expectations among early-stage entrepreneurs expecting to employ 
0, 1–5 or 6 more people in five years’ time (% adults)  54
Figure 5.2 The percentage of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) who are solo 
entrepreneurs (one owner, no employees) and those currently employing five or more 
people  55
Figure 5.3 The percentage of adults starting new businesses with products or services that are 
new to their area, country or the world  56
Figure 5.4 The percentage of adults starting new businesses using technologies or processes that 
are new to their area, new to their country or new to the world  57
Figure 5.5 The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) and those within this 
with only local customers, only national customers, or with international customers 
(%)  58
Figure 5.6 The percentage of those starting or running new businesses in each economy and 
anticipating 25% or more of revenue coming from customers outside that economy  606 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFigure 5.7 The percentage of those starting or running new businesses in each economy who 
have identified a Sustainable Development Goal as a priority for that business  61
Figure 6.1 Levels of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) by women and by men 
(% women and % men)  65
Figure 6.2 Levels of Established Business Ownership (EBO) by women and by men 
(% women and % men)  65
Figure 6.3 The ratio of women to men new entrepreneurship (TEAf/TEAm) and the ratio of 
women to men owning established businesses (EBOf/EBOm)  66
Figure 6.4 The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (% adults in each age group) for 
age groups 18–34 and 35–64  69
Figure 6.5 The level of Established Business Ownership (% adults in each age group) for age 
groups 18–34 and 35–64  69
Figure 6.6 The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) for graduates and for 
non-graduates (%)  71
Figure 6.7 The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) (%) for those reporting 
that their household income had “strongly decreased”, “somewhat decreased” or 
“somewhat increased” in 2023, where that category was at least 10% of responses  72
Figure 7 .1 The percentage of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) who think starting 
a business is more difficult compared to one year ago  75
Figure 7 .2 The percentage of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) whose business 
growth expectations are lower compared to one year ago  75
Figure 7 .3 The percentage of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) who agree that the 
pandemic has led to new opportunities they wish to pursue and the percentage of 
Established Business Ownership (EBO) who are pursuing such opportunities  77
Figure 7 .4 The percentage of new and established business owners expecting to use more digital 
technologies to sell their products or services in the next six months (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA] and Established Business Ownership [EBO])  79
Figure 7 .5 The share of new and established business owners who have taken steps in the past 
year to minimize the environmental impact of their business (% Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA] and % Established Business Ownership [EBO])  80
Figure 7 .6 The share of new and established business owners who have taken steps in the 
past year to maximize the social impact of their business (% Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA] and % Established Business Ownership [EBO])  81
Figure 7 .7 Are you aware of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? (% Total 
early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA] and % Established Business Ownership 
[EBO])  83
Figure 8.1 Agreement with motivations “to make a difference in the world” and “to build great 
wealth or very high income” (% Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA])  86
Figure 8.2 Agreement with motivations “to continue a family tradition” and “to earn a living 
because jobs are scarce” (% Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA])  86
Figure 8.3 The percentage of adults exiting a business in the past 12 months, and whether that 
business continued  89
Figure 8.4 Positive, negative and COVID-related reasons within total exits  90
Figure 8.5 The percentage of those adults who have exited a business in the last 12 months who 
intend to start another business in the next three years  917 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFigure 9.1 Number of Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (out of 13) scored as sufficient 
(score ≥5) (49 economies, 2023)  97
Figure 9.2 National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), 2023  99
Figure 9.3 National expert scores for the perceived prioritization of economic performance, good 
environmental practices and good sustainability practices  102
Figure 9.4 National expert scores for the perceived social support for women entrepreneurs, and 
their relative access to the resources necessary to start and run their businesses  104
Tables
Table 1.1 Income groups  30
Table 8.1 Motivation by educational attainment: number of economies with the proportion of 
graduates agreeing with the motivation exceeding the proportion of non-graduates, 
and vice versa  87
Table 9.1 Summary of national Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs)  96
Table 9.2  Changes in Entrepreneurial Framework Condition Scores, 2021–2023 (41 economies)  98
Table A1 Changes in household income in 2023 (% of adults aged 18–64 )  208
Table A2 Entrepreneurial activity (% of adults aged 18–64)  212
Table A3 Public attitudes and perceptions (% of adults aged 18–64 somewhat or strongly agree)  214
Table A4 Attitudes and perceptions of entrepreneurs: % of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) and % of Established Business Ownership (EBO)  218
Table A5 Entrepreneurial activity by age, gender and education  222
Table A6 Sector distribution of new entrepreneurial activity 
(% of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity)  226
Table A7 Business exits, and reason for exit (positive, negative [non-COVID] and COVID-
related), % of adults aged 18–64  228
Table A8 Entrepreneurial expectations and scope (% of adults aged 18–64)  230
Table A9 The motivation to start a business (% of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity 
who somewhat or strongly agree)  234
Table A10 National Entrepreneurship Context Index and number of Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) scored as sufficient or better (score ≥5)  2368 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportKey GEM Definitions and 
Abbreviations
Adult Population 
Survey (APS)The APS is a comprehensive interview questionnaire, administered to a minimum of 2,000 adults 
in each GEM economy, designed to collect detailed information on the entrepreneurial activities, 
attitudes and aspirations of respondents.
National Expert 
Survey (NES)The NES is completed by selected experts in each GEM economy and collects views on the context 
in which entrepreneurship takes place in that economy. It provides information about the aspects of 
a country’s socio-economic characteristics that, according to research, have a significant impact on 
national entrepreneurship: referred to as the Entrepreneurship Framework Conditions (EFCs).
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA)The percentage of adults (aged 18–64) who are starting or running a new business, i.e. one that has 
not yet paid wages or salaries for 42 months or more.
Established Business 
Ownership (EBO)The percentage of adults (aged 18–64) who are currently the owner-manager of an established 
business, i.e. owning and managing a business that has paid salaries, wages or any other payments 
to the owners, for more than 42 months.
Entrepreneurial 
Framework 
Conditions (EFCs)The conditions identified by GEM that enhance (or hinder) new business creation in a given 
economy, and form the framework for the NES. The conditions are:
A1. Entrepreneurial Finance  Are there sufficient funds for new startups?
A2. Ease of Access to Entrepreneurial Finance  And are those funds easy to access?
B1. Government Policy: Support and Relevance  Do they promote and support startups?
B2. Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy  Or are new businesses burdened?
C. Government Entrepreneurial Programs  Are quality support programs available?
D1. Entrepreneurial Education at School  Do schools introduce entrepreneurship ideas?
D2. Entrepreneurial Education Post-School  Do colleges offer courses in starting a business?
E. Research and Development Transfers  Can research be translated into new businesses?
F. Commercial and Professional Infrastructure  Are these sufficient and affordable?
G1. Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics  Are markets free, open and growing?
G2. Ease of Entry: Burdens and Regulation  Do regulations encourage or restrict entry?
H. Physical Infrastructure  Is this sufficient and affordable?
I. Social and Cultural Norms  Does culture encourage and celebrate entrepreneurship?
National 
Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI)This summarizes in one figure the average state of 13 national EFCs selected by GEM researchers as 
the most reliable determinants of a favourable environment for entrepreneurship. It is calculated as 
the simple average of 13 variables that represent the EFCs, and which have been measured through 
a block of items evaluated by an 11-point Likert scale and summarized by applying factorial analyses 
(principal component method).
National Team GEM is a consortium of “National Teams”. Each Team is led by a local university or other institution 
with a strong interest in entrepreneurship. The team is the official national representative of 
the project: responsible for collecting GEM data in the country on an annual basis, producing a 
“National Report” on their findings, and acting as the point of contact for GEM enquiries.9 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportGEM Income Classification
Level A Economies with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of more than $50,000.
Level B Economies with a GDP per capita of between $25,000 and $50,000.
Level C Economies with a GDP per capita of less than $25,000.
Economies participating in GEM 2023 by income group
Level A
>$50,000Level B
$25,000–$50,000Level C
<$25,000
Canada
France
Germany
Italy
Rep. Korea
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Slovenia
Sweden
Switzerland
United Arab Emirates*
United Kingdom
United StatesArgentina*
Chile
Croatia
Cyprus
Estonia
Greece
Hungary
Israel
Japan*
Latvia
Lithuania
Oman
Panama
Poland
Puerto Rico
Romania
Slovak Republic
Spain
UruguayBrazil
China
Colombia
Ecuador
Guatemala
India
Iran
Jordan
Mexico
Morocco
South Africa
Thailand
Ukraine
Venezuela
* Participated only in the NES, not the APSWhat makes a city or region attractive to 
entrepreneurs? Which factors draw creative 
entrepreneurs to a city or region … indeed, 
to any entrepreneurial ecosystem? What 
gives them the confi  dence that they can 
build successful, value-adding and profi  table 
companies in a nurturing context? How 
good are cities and regions at building these 
contexts and nurturing entrepreneurship?
Collaborate with GEM to fi  nd answers to 
these questions in cities and regions that 
are important to you! Our Entrepreneurial 
Ecosystem Quality Composite Index (ESI) 
is a diagnostic tool that provides frameworks 
and data to analyse just about any subnational 
ecosystem. ESI reports have been conducted 
in several ecosystems around the world.
For more information, visit www.gemconsortium.org or email info@gemconsortium.org“The GEM ESI methodology provided 
a valuable contribution to deepen our 
knowledge of Madrid’s entrepreneurial 
ecosystem. It is a solid scientifi  c approach and 
offers the possibility to analyse a number of 
variables aligned to different key pillars. This 
enabled us to identify how the main actors 
interact and the key issues to be addressed to 
foster ecosystem development. The ESI tool is 
a great input for diagnosis and policymaking.”
—Isidro de Pablo López, 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid
“Reporting on the fi  ndings from the Global 
Entrepreneurship Monitor’s Entrepreneurial 
Ecosystem Quality Index in our region 
of Nova Scotia, Canada, generated a 
signifi  cant amount of interest from 
policymakers and ecosystem actors. Some 
of the notable fi  ndings, based on our data, 
have informed debate and helped leading 
ecosystem players to think about strategies 
for further ecosystem development.”
—Kevin McKague, PhD, 
Canada Research Chair and  Associate 
Professor of Entrepreneurship, Shannon 
School of Business, Cape Breton UniversityCollaborate with GEM to assess 
city and regional readiness 
for entrepreneurship11 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportAcknowledgements
It gives special pleasure to present Global 
Entrepreneurship Monitor’s 2023/24 Global 
Report: 25 Years and Growing, especially since 
this is the 25th anniversary of GEM. The GEM 
Global Report is published annually and requires 
the time, expertise and resources of several 
hundred people around the world, including 
technical experts at top academic institutions 
and research institutes, dedicated sponsoring 
organizations and high-quality national experts 
across countries. Our first acknowledgement 
and thanks therefore go to our dedicated 
GEM National Teams, to their sponsors and 
respondents, without whose efforts and support 
GEM would not be able to point to a quarter of a 
century of existence.
We also warmly appreciate and value the 
continued support of the Cartier Women’s 
Initiative (CWI), with which GEM has had a 
strategic partnership for the last four years. 
I particularly thank Wingee Sin, Global 
Program Director of CWI, for her passionate 
interest in GEM’s research activities and her 
willingness to help us boost and elevate the 
women’s entrepreneurship dimensions of GEM’s 
global research. Each year, CWI has brought 
generous and invaluable financial support for 
both the Global Report and the GEM Women’s 
Entrepreneurship report.
The School of Management Fribourg 
(HEG-FR) at the University of Western 
Switzerland has also dedicated precious 
financial resources for GEM’s work in women’s 
entrepreneurship and on the contribution 
of entrepreneurship to the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals. Both themes 
figure prominently in this Global Report. We 
warmly thank Professor Rico Baldegger, 
Director and Professor of Strategy, Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship at the School of Management 
Fribourg (HEG-FR), Switzerland. We once again 
thank HEG-FR for magnificently hosting the 
launch of the previous edition of the GEM Global 
Report in beautiful Switzerland.In terms of extraordinary external funding and 
in-kind support in 2024, we warmly thank the 
Hassan II University of Casablanca, Morocco. 
The institution is supporting the publication and 
launch of this 25th anniversary edition of our 
iconic report. We are also enormously grateful 
that the Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific 
Research and Innovation and Ministry of 
Economic Inclusion, Small Business, Employment 
and Skills are also supporting us with this special 
edition. Special thanks go to Professor Fatem 
Boutaleb for her hard work in bringing the strong 
MENA dimension of GEM’s work more into focus.
This report has been expertly orchestrated by 
lead author Stephen Hill and GEM Global staff. 
Firstly we would like to thank Steve profusely for 
both his expertise and his calm, paced manner in 
bringing together analysis from a group of GEM 
National Team co-authors across the world. 
There are too many co-authors to list here (they 
are named in the individual chapters), but their 
contributions are highly appreciated. They bring a 
high level of diverse expertise and points of view 
to our GEM thought leadership and help us to 
truly reflect a global perspective on the “State of 
the Art” of entrepreneurship.
GEM has a dedicated GEM Global core team 
that works virtually and truly globally from Spain, 
Portugal, Switzerland and the United States. We 
acknowledge the careful data harmonization work 
of our data managers, Francis Carmona and 
Alicia Coduras, with support from Henrique 
Bastos. Kevin Anselmo, our Communications 
Advisor, and Dean Bargh, of Witchwood 
Productions, steered the final draft of this 
complex report to successful completion. And 
last but certainly not least, thanks to our GEM 
Operations Manager Aurea Almanso for her 
unfailing dedication to ensuring that GEM runs 
smoothly, like the 25-year-old well-oiled machine 
that it is. To all, warm appreciation.
Aileen Ionescu-Somers, PhD
GEM Executive Director12 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportForeword
In 1999, when Professor Bill Bygrave of Babson 
College and Professor Michael Hay of London 
Business School put their heads together and 
co-created Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 
(GEM), did they dare to imagine that this “light 
bulb” research idea would one day have a 
25-year (and counting) horizon? It turns out that 
they were particularly visionary academics, so 
the answer is probably a resounding “Yes!”. 
Nevertheless, it is still a significant tribute to both 
that, as GEM celebrates its 25th Silver Anniversary 
and launches its 2023/24 Global Report in 
Casablanca, hosted by the GEM Morocco National 
Team and the Hassan II University of Casablanca, 
it can claim to be a research initiative with 
payoffs that create not only immediate but also 
generational benefits. Not many research projects 
can make a similar claim.
Keeping such a long-term research activity 
going is rarely accomplished by even the most 
prestigious of individual universities. A rapid 
succession of short-lived projects dictated by 
the longevity of PhD theses is a more common 
currency in universities nowadays. Whatever 
made it possible for GEM to succeed with its 
ambitious multi-generational work? The answer, 
as with many successes, is the passion and drive 
of its people. GEM is a multi-stakeholder effort. 
The National Teams bring requisite expertise 
and financial resources to collect national-level 
data, and are willing to pool these resources 
at an international level. This enables the 
writing of GEM Global Reports such as this one; 
a veritable annual “State of the Art” of global 
entrepreneurship.
In this Foreword for the 25th edition of the 
GEM Global Report, therefore, we leave it to some 
of the many long-standing members of the GEM 
consortium to tell our readers what they believe is 
the greatest achievement or contribution of GEM 
in the last quarter of a century:
• José Ernesto Amorós, Tecnológico de 
Monterrey, and GEM Mexico National 
Team Co-Leader (and the GEM/GERA 
Board Chair): “The unique nature of the 
GEM methodology and data not only allows 
us to understand the current dynamics of entrepreneurship in various contexts but also 
enables us to provide scientifically based 
recommendations for improving regional or 
national entrepreneurship ecosystems through 
historical analysis. These are key GEM 
differentiators.”
• Professor Alicia Coduras, GEM National 
Expert Survey Coordinator and GEM 
Global: “In these 25 years, GEM has 
succeeded with its original objective: 
to reveal the important contribution 
of entrepreneurship to the economy 
of countries and their development, 
to increase the understanding of 
the perceptions and activities of the 
protagonists (that is, the entrepreneurs 
themselves), as well as of the characteristics 
of their businesses and the context in which 
they operate.”
• Professor Mark Hart, Aston University, 
UK, and GEM UK Team Leader: “Here in the 
UK it has allowed me to engage with national 
and regional policymakers in developing 
better evidence on the performance of policy 
and the development of the entrepreneurial 
ecosystem.”
• Professor Donna Kelley, GEM founding 
organization, Babson College, GEM 
US National Team Co-leader, and GEM 
Saudi Arabia: “I am most proud of the fact 
that GEM has become the most frequently 
used data source on entrepreneurship 
among academic researchers, including 
those publishing in the most influential 
peer-reviewed journals.”
• Professor Maribel Guerrero, Arizona 
State University and GEM Chile National 
Team Leader: “For 25 years, GEM has had a 
noteworthy impact on society, the economy, 
and academia by consistently providing 
annual radiography with inquiry information 
for a diversity of global stakeholders 
about business demography and factors 
entrepreneurs encounter when starting and 
expanding their businesses within different 
ecosystems.”13 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportToday, GEM provides living proof that 
long-term research can flourish through 
international cooperation. Even if funded 
primarily (but not only) by governments on an 
individual national level, GEM has been able 
to fulfil the essential role of independent and 
objective messenger to decision-makers for what 
the meticulously collected data reveals, entirely 
free of political mandates.
GEM can also aim for a long-term future; the 
data it generates will never lose relevance as 
economies seek to grow and thrive, and as the 
world seeks innovative solutions to some of the 
greatest existential threats faced by humankind. 
Looking ahead, GEM will undoubtedly continue to 
be a fundamental study for generating knowledge 
about new ventures and their subsequent 
economic and social impacts in different regions of the world. As Ana Fernández-Laviada, 
Universidad de Cantabria and GEM Spain 
Leader states:
“Due to its scientific rigour and regularity, GEM 
has managed to be the world-renowned source of 
global intelligence on entrepreneurship. Today, you 
simply cannot talk about entrepreneurship without 
citing GEM. That is its greatest achievement.”
Aileen Ionescu-Somers, PhD
Executive Director, 
Global Entrepreneurship Monitor
Professor José Ernesto Amorós
GEM/GERA Board Chair
and the GEM expert researchers 
that are mentioned in this Preface14 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportGEM APS GRIPS* GROUP
Coordination: Aileen Ionescu-Somers & Francis Carmona, GEM Global
Niels Bosma, GEM Senior Research Advisor/GEM UK
Nuria Calvo Babio, GEM Spain
Christian Friedl, GEM Austria
Maribel Guerrero, GEM Chile
Mark Hart, GEM UK
Peter Josty, GEM Canada
Mahdi Majbouri, GEM USA
* GRIPs = GEM Research & Innovation ProjectsGEM NES GRIPS* GROUP
Coordination: Alicia Coduras, GEM Global & GEM Saudi Arabia
Niels Bosma, GEM Senior Research Advisor/GEM UK
Fatem Boutaleb, GEM Morocco
Angus Bowmaker-Falconer, GEM South Africa
Simara Greco, GEM Brazil
Ariadna Monje Amor, GEM Spain
Jeffrey Shay, GEM USA
Anna Tarnawa, GEM PolandGLOBAL TEAM
Aileen Ionescu-Somers, PhD
Executive Director
asomers@gemconsortium.orgAurea Almanso, MBA
Operations, GEM Global
aalmanso@gemconsortium.orgKevin Anselmo
Communications AdvisorHenrique Bastos
Research Support
Jonathan Francis Carmona, MSc
Data Team SupervisorProfessor Alicia Coduras, PhD
National Expert 
Survey CoordinatorStephen Hill, DSc
2023/24 Global Report  
Lead Author
GOVERNANCE BOARD
José Ernesto Amorós, PhD
Interim Board Chair 
National Team Representative
GEM MexicoAna Fernández-Laviada, PhD
National Team Representative 
GEM SpainEhud Menipaz, PhD
National Team Representative
GEM IsraelJeffrey Shay, PhD
National Team Representative 
GEM USA
Anna Tarnawa, MA
National Team Representative
GEM PolandNiels Bosma, PhD
Senior Research Advisor
National Team Representative 
GEM UK15 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportAbout GEM
Entrepreneurship is an essential driver of societal 
health and wealth. It is also a formidable engine 
of economic growth. It promotes the essential 
innovation required not only to exploit new 
opportunities, promote productivity and create 
employment, but to also address some of society’s 
greatest challenges, such as the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) or shocks 
from different global events.
Governments and other stakeholders 
increasingly need hard, robust and credible 
data to make key decisions that stimulate 
sustainable forms of entrepreneurship and 
promote healthy entrepreneurial ecosystems 
worldwide. To capture a complete picture of 
an entrepreneurial ecosystem, it is important 
to go beyond official statistics, like the number 
of registered businesses. Stakeholders need to 
understand on-the-ground perceptions about 
entrepreneurship. Global Entrepreneurship 
Monitor (GEM) is the only global research 
source that collects data directly from the source 
— entrepreneurs.
During its 25 years of existence, GEM has 
repeatedly provided policymakers with valuable 
insights on how best to foster entrepreneurship 
to propel growth and prosperity. The networked 
consortium of national country teams, primarily 
associated with top academic institutions, carries 
out survey-based research on entrepreneurship 
and entrepreneurship ecosystems around the 
world. GEM tools and data are unique and benefit 
numerous stakeholder groups. By becoming 
involved with GEM:
• Academics are able to apply unique 
methodological approaches to studying 
entrepreneurship at the national level;
• Policymakers are able to make better-
informed decisions to help entrepreneurs 
and entrepreneurial ecosystems thrive;
• Entrepreneurs have better knowledge 
about where to invest their sometimes 
scarce resources and how to influence key stakeholders so that they get the support 
they need;
• Sponsors both advance their organizational 
interests and gain a higher profile through 
their association with GEM;
• International organizations leverage insights, 
but can also incorporate or integrate GEM 
indicators to their own data sets, or use GEM 
data as a benchmark for their own analyses.
GEM has an impressive and highly credible 
track record. In numbers, GEM represents:
• 25 years of data, allowing longitudinal 
analysis in and across geographies on 
multiple levels;
• Up to 170,000+ interviews annually with 
experts and adult populations including 
entrepreneurs of all ages;
• Data from 120 economies across five 
continents;
• Collaboration with 370+ specialists in 
entrepreneurship research;
• Involvement of 150+ academic and research 
institutions;
• Support from 150+ funding institutions.
GEM began in 1999 as a joint research 
project between Babson College (USA) and 
London Business School (UK). The consortium 
has become the richest source of reliable 
information on the state of entrepreneurship 
and entrepreneurial ecosystems across the 
globe, publishing not only the GEM Global 
Report annually, but also a range of national and 
special-topic reports each year.
GEM’s first annual study covered 10 countries; 
since then, some 120 countries from every corner 
of the globe have participated in GEM research. 
As a result, GEM has gone beyond a project to 
become the highly networked organization that 
it is today. GEM can confidently stake a claim to 
be the largest ongoing study of entrepreneurial 
dynamics in the world.16 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportExecutive Summary
Stephen Hill and Aileen Ionescu-Somers
When next year’s surveys are completed, the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) 
will have been collecting primary data about entrepreneurship for 25 years, making it by 
far the world’s largest and longest-running research study on levels of entrepreneurial 
activity. In that period, around 4 million people will have been surveyed across 120 
different countries, and views sought from nearly 50,000 national experts.
Why all this effort over such a long period? Because entrepreneurship, defined by GEM 
as the act of starting or running a new business, matters. Of course it matters to the 
people involved, who are taking brave steps to secure their own livelihoods, to shape 
their own futures and, sometimes, to change the world. But entrepreneurship also 
matters to the wider economy and society. Those starting new businesses can bring 
new ideas turned into new products and processes, enhancing consumer and producer 
choice, building the next Apple or Tesla, or simply making a better cup of coffee.
Entrepreneurs identify and exploit new opportunities, create new jobs and value-added, 
enhance (and sometimes disrupt) supply chains, and tackle some of the world’s most 
pressing problems, including climate change, the shortage of liquidity in developing 
economies and environmental pollution. Many entrepreneurs seized new opportunities 
during and after the COVID-19 pandemic, from delivering takeaway food to delivering 
new vaccines. Some new businesses fail, but resilient entrepreneurs will pick 
themselves up, reflect on lessons learned and try again.
The GEM project has provided consistent, coherent and contemporary data across 
different economies and through time. The Adult Population Survey (APS), and its 
smaller brother, the National Expert Survey (NES), are both conducted to rigorous 
standards, asking the same questions across the globe, with responses coded, 
harmonized and quality-checked by GEM Global, so that levels of entrepreneurial 
activity can be compared across space and through time.
This 2023/2024 Global Report presents the results of GEM APS and NES surveys 
conducted in summer/autumn 2023 at a time when the global economy was continuing 
its hesitant recovery from the shocks and aftershocks of the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
war in Ukraine.
Here are some key baseline statistics related to the 2023 GEM surveys:
• The APS was conducted in 46 economies, representing nearly 60% of current world 
population and 70% of global GDP .17 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report• Over 136,000 individuals replied to APS questions about their attitudes, perceptions 
and activities related to entrepreneurship.
• An additional 2,000 experts from 49 economies offered their assessments for the 
NES.
2023/2024 GLOBAL REPORT FINDINGS
In 2023, global GDP was expected to grow by just 3%, and world inflation fall to 7%.1 
Despite this global GDP growth, all 46 economies in the GEM APS have a significant 
number of adults reporting that their household income has fallen in 2023. In the 
context of this environment, the following are five salient and noteworthy themes from 
the 2023 GEM surveys.
1. Schools continue to get low marks
• Despite incremental improvement in some cases, entrepreneurial education at 
school in most economies continues to be assessed as poor, and was rated as 
weakest of all 13 Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions in 31 out of 49 economies. 
Each year, GEM has profiled this framework condition as a general problem across 
economies.
• In the 2023 survey, entrepreneurial education at school was assessed by national 
experts as satisfactory or better in just five out of 49 economies. Yet change is 
possible: between 2021 and 2023, both Qatar and the United Arab Emirates showed 
substantially improved ratings for this framework condition. Do you have to be 
high-income to do this? India had the most improved ratings over the same 
period, from less than satisfactory to much better than satisfactory.
2. Entrepreneurial activity rates are highly variable
• The highest levels of entrepreneurial activity are in the Latin America & 
Caribbean region, with all five highest rates of adults starting and running new 
businesses coming from this region. However, levels of new entrepreneurial 
activity are highly variable, across all regions and all income groups. For 
example, in the Latin America & Caribbean region the level varied from 17% in 
Mexico to 31% in Panama, while in the low-income Level C group it varied from 6% 
in Morocco to (again) 31% in Panama. Other regions and income groups display 
similar variability. Established Business Ownership is typically both lower and less 
variable.
1 World Bank data.18 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report• Among the different sectors, lower-income economies tend to have much 
higher proportions of new startups, specifically in the consumer services 
sector, where entry-requirements are typically less demanding. Ten economies 
out of 14 from the lowest income group (Level C) had two out of three of their new 
startups in consumer services, compared to just one economy in the middle- and 
higher-income groups combined (Levels A and B).
• Among new entrepreneurs, job creation expectations are generally higher in 
the Latin America & Caribbean region than in other regions. Puerto Rico, Chile, 
Brazil and Mexico each had more than three in 10 of those starting and running new 
businesses expecting to employ at least another six people over the next five years. 
New entrepreneurs in European economies tend to have much lower job creation 
expectations, perhaps reflecting higher add-on costs of hiring people, and a more 
cautionary approach.
3. Women entrepreneurs deserve more support
• Experts in most economies (37 out of 49) rated social support for women 
as unsatisfactory. However, in a majority of economies (27 out of 49), women 
entrepreneurs’ access to resources, as compared to that of men, rated as satisfactory 
or better. In only five economies did experts assess both social support for women 
entrepreneurs and their resource access compared to men as satisfactory or better: 
India, Qatar, Norway, Sweden and the United Arab Emirates.
United Arab Emirates1
India2
Norway5
Sweden4
Qatar 3THE FIVE ECONOMIES MOST SUPPORTIVE OF WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS
Only ﬁve economies (four Level A and one Level C) scored as satisfactory or more in both
(a) social support for women entrepreneurs and (b) their access
to the resources necessary to start and run their businesses
19 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report• Fear of failure remains a formidable obstacle to new startups, especially for 
women. At least two in five adults seeing good opportunities would not start a 
business for fear in might fail in 35 of the 45 participating economies. In 37 of these 
economies, a higher proportion of women than men seeing good opportunities 
would not start a business for fear it might fail. Interestingly, the biggest perception 
gap was in the United Kingdom, where 63% of those women seeing good 
opportunities would not start a business for fear it might fail, compared to just 44% 
of men.
4. Entrepreneurs are facing the future
• Good news: many new and established entrepreneurs are contributing 
to a range of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). At least one in two 
new entrepreneurs identified an SDG as a priority in 25 of 33 economies (these 
APS questions were optional). However, actions speak louder than words, and 
entrepreneurs are stepping up to the plate and walking the talk. More than one in 
two new entrepreneurs had taken concrete steps to minimize the environmental 
impact of their new business in 28 of 45 economies. Established Business 
Owners were even more active, with at least one in two taking steps to minimize 
environmental impacts in 36 of 45 economies.
• Intriguingly, in many economies, regardless of income level, new entrepreneurs 
are assessed by experts as prioritizing good environmental or sustainability 
practices above economic performance, indicating a considerable shift in 
mindset among those creating new businesses in today’s challenged world. Of 
48 economies,2 39 were assessed as satisfactory or better for prioritizing good 
sustainability practices, 36 for prioritizing good environmental practices and just 27 
for prioritizing economic performance.
• Notwithstanding the much-touted increasing availability of emerging 
technologies, many new businesses are simply replicating existing goods 
and services, using familiar processes and technologies. Only seven economies 
had two in five or more of their entrepreneurs introducing new products or services: 
Chile, Guatemala, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, Panama and Sweden.
5. Entrepreneurs are resilient
• Entrepreneurs have a high level of resilience. Those adults exiting a business 
in the past 12 months are much more likely to expect to start a new business in the 
upcoming three years. In 32 of 46 economies, those exiting a business were more 
2 Guatemalan experts were not asked these questions.20 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportthan twice as likely to be expecting to start a new business in the next three years 
than the general public.
• Economies can have an excellent entrepreneurial environment regardless of 
income level. Examples include India and China, both in the lower-income group 
(Level C) but both in the top 10 scores out of all countries included in the GEM 
National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI; a score that is allocated based on 
assessment of each economy’s Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions). Conversely, 
GEM data shows that being a country in the higher-income category does not 
guarantee an excellent entrepreneurial environment. Government priorities greatly 
influence outcomes and may matter as much as resources.
• But a small group of high-income economies in Europe and North America, since 
the pandemic, have seen the assessed quality of their overall entrepreneurial 
environment slip into the “less than sufficient” category. These include 
Canada, Sweden, Norway, Germany and even the United States, with France and 
Latvia close behind.
36%LEVEL B
averageLEVEL C
average
 LEVEL A
average
51%
66%
India (77%)
Panama (80%)
Chile (73%)Venezeula (83%)Oman (83%)RESILIENCE LEVELS GLOBALLY
Measured as the percentange of those adults who have exited a business in the last 12 months
who intend to start another business in the next three years. The (population-weighted) average
across the three income levels along with the ﬁve highest-scoring economies.
21 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report• As we look back over the last few years, there is evidence to support the notion 
that entrepreneurship levels fell in the early days of the pandemic but have 
largely recovered in many countries since the pandemic abated (end of 2021). 
Of the 32 economies participating in GEM in 2019, 2021 and 2023, there are 14 in 
which levels of early-stage entrepreneurial activity both fell 2019–2021, and then 
increased 2021–2023.
The chapters that follow will present much more details about entrepreneurial activity 
across the world in 2023. Within this rich tapestry will be more evidence that supports 
the key findings outlined above, as well as a host of other findings with important policy 
implications.
Entrepreneurship continues to be a key driver of prosperity and social and economic 
development. That is why the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor looks forward to the 
next 25 years of surveys, measurement and analysis.PART 1
Introduction24 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportIntroduction to the 
2023/2024 Global Report
Stephen Hill and Aileen Ionescu-Somers
1.1 INTRODUCTION
Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) is 
celebrating its 25-year Silver Anniversary in 
2024. It marks a quarter-century of collaborative 
research focused on measuring and monitoring 
levels of entrepreneurial activity across the world. 
What started with just 10 participating economies 
in 1999 has grown to become the world’s largest 
and longest-running study of entrepreneurship, 
backed up by a research organization and highly 
recognizable brand familiar to entrepreneurial 
academics, practitioners and policymakers.
GEM is a consortium of National Teams, 
primarily associated with top academic 
institutions, which carry out surveys around the 
world. GEM is the only global research source 
that collects data on entrepreneurship directly 
from individual entrepreneurs. GEM’s Adult 
Population Survey (APS) provides an analysis of 
the characteristics, motivations and ambitions 
of individuals starting businesses, as well as 
social attitudes towards entrepreneurship. The 
GEM National Expert Survey (NES) focuses on 
the national context in which individuals start 
businesses.
In 2023, the APS was conducted in 46 different 
national economies across the globe, collectively 
representing some 57% of the world’s population 
and 70% of global Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP).3 It is the consistency of the questions 
in this survey, across countries and over time, 
asked of a large random sample of adults in each 
participating economy, that makes GEM such an 
important research resource for policymakers. The 
NES was conducted across over 2,000 experts in 
49 countries in 2023. Again, it is the consistency 
of the questions asked of experts that creates such 
significant scope for monitoring entrepreneurial 
environments over time.The GEM APS and NES databases are a 
resource of inestimable value to GEM’s key 
stakeholders. Summary hard data may be directly 
accessed from the GEM website (http://www.
gemconsortium.org). Insights from the data can 
be used in policymaking discussions and strategic 
decision-making, as well as in a plethora of 
research initiatives.
GEM’s 25th anniversary is an appropriate 
moment to reflect on lessons learned and to 
contemplate future challenges. Since 1999, GEM 
has surveyed almost 4 million adults in nearly 120 
countries, building the world’s largest sustained 
database on individual activities, perceptions and 
attitudes in relation to entrepreneurship.
Each year, the annual launch of GEM’s 
Global Report paves the way for the publication 
of numerous National Reports which further 
leverage the data at a detailed, national level. 
GEM also produces reports on topics of special 
interest: most recently, the GEM 2022/23 
European Regional Report: Research Insights 
for Policymakers and the 2022/23 GEM Women’s 
Entrepreneurship Report: Challenging Bias and 
Stereotypes — all available for free on the GEM 
website.
The 20th Anniversary edition of the GEM 
Global Report (2018/2019) reviewed changes in 
entrepreneurial activity over the previous two 
decades, and concluded that, after two decades 
of rising incomes, levels of entrepreneurial 
activity had generally increased, both for new 
and established entrepreneurs. Today, the 
accumulated evidence over GEM’s 25 years allows 
for some further conclusions, especially given the 
significant social and economic shocks that have 
taken place during this time. Here are three points 
of particular interest.11
3 Estimated using World Bank data for populations and 
GDP . See http://data.worldbank.org .25 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report1. Levels of early-stage entrepreneurial 
activity continue to increase worldwide. 
Of course, this isn’t happening everywhere or 
all the time. But for many of those economies 
that have consistently participated in GEM 
research over time, levels of early-stage 
entrepreneurial activity have been increasing. 
For example, 74 economies have participated 
in the APS for five years or more between 2001 
and 2023 (note: in itself, this is a considerable 
achievement!). Of 74 participating economies, 
38 have shown a significant increase in early-
stage entrepreneurial activity since their 
first participation, while only 17 a significant 
decrease.4 These include 16 economies in 
which the level has more than doubled,5 but 
also six in which the level has halved.6
2. Women’s entrepreneurship is catching up 
(albeit slowly). Successive Global Reports 
have highlighted differences between levels 
of male and female entrepreneurship. While 
there is still much to do, there are signs that 
the gap is narrowing. One way to measure 
the entrepreneurial gap between women and 
men is to use the ratio of early-stage female 
entrepreneurs to male counterparts. Adopting 
the same methodology as above and taking 
the 74 economies that participated in GEM five 
times or more since 2001, in 57 of these 74, the 
ratio of women to men starting or running new 
businesses increased during their periods of 
participation in GEM. Outstanding examples 
include India, which went from three men 
starting new businesses for every woman 
doing the same in 2001, to virtual parity in 
2022. Another example is Saudi Arabia. When 
the country joined GEM in 2009, there were 10 
men starting or running new businesses for 
every woman doing the same. There are more 
than eight women starting new businesses for 
every 10 men doing the same in 2023. By any 
standards, these examples point to significant 
shifts in these societies and their economies.
In their first year of GEM participation, 30 
out of 74 economies had two or more men starting or running a new business for every 
woman doing the same. In their most recent 
year of participation, that number fell to just 
five (out of 74).
3. Entrepreneurial activity can flourish 
in a crisis, often by providing innovative 
solutions to help manage the crisis and then 
contributing to a more optimistic post-crisis 
scenario of restabilization and renewal. A 
crisis is occurring in some part of the globe 
at any given time. However, looking across 
economies over the past quarter of a century, 
two distinct periods of truly global crises can 
be identified, with World Bank data showing 
global GDP falling. The first was the financial 
crisis of 2009–2011, provoked by an earlier 
banking crisis. The second was the recent 
global pandemic. During both crises, levels of 
entrepreneurial activity typically fell, but then 
recovered.
Let us suppose that 2009 was pre-financial 
crisis and 2011 was post-crisis — even though 
crises do not generally fit neatly into calendar 
years. Of the 36 economies that participated 
in GEM in all three years, 2009–2011, in 22 of 
those the level of early-stage entrepreneurial 
activity fell in 2009–2010 and then increased in 
2010–2011. This suggests that entrepreneurship 
was sensitive to that crisis but then rapidly 
recovered. In addition, of these 36 economies, 
27 had a level of entrepreneurial activity that 
was higher in 2011 than it had been in 2009, 
showing that entrepreneurial activity had 
bounced back stronger.
The pandemic years paint a similar picture, 
although not quite as clearly — possibly 
because the pandemic lasted longer than 
the financial crisis, and because economies 
varied widely in their levels of support for 
new businesses during the period. Of the 34 
economies that participated in GEM in each 
of the years 2019–2021, 15 saw their levels of 
early-stage entrepreneurial activity first fall 
and then increase, although just 12 had levels 
in 2021 that were higher than in 2019 (see the 
2021/2022 GEM Global Report, pp. 47–49).
GEM will continue to monitor levels of 
entrepreneurial activity in years to come and, 
no doubt, there will come a day when there 
will be a review of GEM’s first 50 years. In the 
meantime, there will be further challenges, 
both to entrepreneurship levels and to the GEM 
research process. Artificial intelligence (AI) is 4 The mean of two large random samples are 
significantly different if there is less than a 5% 
probability that the difference occurred by chance.
5 Angola, Barbados, Croatia, Hong Kong, Kazakhstan, 
Japan, Latvia, Panama, Puerto Rico, Romania, 
Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, Turkey, 
United Arab Emirates and Uruguay.
6 Algeria, China, Indonesia, Morocco, North Macedonia 
and Poland.26 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportalready presenting a plethora of new business 
opportunities such as AI-powered talent-matching 
platforms, personalized health monitoring, 
customized e-learning experiences and sustainable energy management, to name a few. 
At the same time, new businesses are increasingly 
taking social and environmental concerns into 
account, as evidenced in this report.
1.2 THE GLOBAL CONTEXT IN 2023
In the autumn of 2023, the global economy 
appeared to be heading for a relatively “soft 
landing” after the tumult of previous years, with 
global GDP growth expected to fall from 3.5% in 
2022 to just under 3% in 2023 and 2024.7 Interest 
rates had been creeping steadily upwards to 
combat inflation, with the latter expected to fall 
from nearly 9% in 2022 to 7% in 2023 and then 6% 
in 2024.
In 2023, the global business environment 
achieved some stability after both the turmoil 
of the pandemic and subsequently the effects of 
the Russian invasion of Ukraine. However, the 
impacts of both events continue to disrupt the 
world economy. The pandemic led to new ways 
of working, interacting and consuming. The 
Ukraine–Russia war has impacted inflation as 
a result of significant supply chain disruption. 
Entrepreneurs, just like national economies, have had to adjust to new circumstances each time. As 
ever, economic turbulence brings both challenges 
and opportunities, and entrepreneurs have been 
quick to respond to each.
It is broadly accepted across the globe that 
current observable climate change is mainly 
caused by human activity, measurable by the 
tangible effects of increasing global temperatures, 
drought and extreme weather events. This has 
motivated an increasing amount of people 
to try to live and work sustainably. There are 
rising concerns about poverty and inclusion, 
especially given the impact of recent crises. These 
pressures are fully reflected in the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see 
Figure 1.1), which are slowly but surely working 
themselves into the business environment and 
into the consciousness of both entrepreneurs and 
consumers.
GEM makes its contribution to the SDGs by 
exploring the impact of entrepreneurs on these 
goals and ascertaining whether there are changes 
FIGURE 1.1 
The United Nations 
Sustainable 
Development 
Goals (SDGs)
Taken from https://
sdgs.un.org7 IMF, World Economic Outlook 2023, https://www.imf.
org (accessed 20 October 2023).27 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportin entrepreneurial behaviours that can be related 
to the goals. Since 2020, GEM has been including 
SDG-related questions in its research instruments 
(APS and NES). A special-topic GEM report related to these issues is forthcoming. To provide 
an initial overview, the results reported in each 
chapter of this 2023/24 Global Report will also be 
related, where possible, to specific SDGs.
1.3 WHY IS ENTREPRENEURSHIP IMPORTANT?
GEM defines entrepreneurship as the act 
of starting or running a new business. New 
businesses matter, and not only to the people that 
conceived and launched them. New businesses 
bring new products and technologies to the 
market and turn the ideas of entrepreneurs into 
tangible goods and services that consumers or 
other businesses want to buy. Entrepreneurs 
hasten structural changes in the economy, 
attracting resources towards products and 
services in new sectors and new industries, and 
pulling resources away from sectors that produce 
goods and services that people no longer desire. 
Such structural changes drive productivity 
increases and ultimately raise living standards 
across the economy. Entrepreneurial activity is 
thus a key component in the process of economic 
development.8 Entrepreneurs can also hasten 
social change: for example, by finding new 
solutions to society’s most pressing challenges, 
such as providing ways of overcoming obstacles 
in accessing business credit in poorer economies, 
or of extracting plastic from rivers, lakes and 
oceans.9
For these reasons, increasing entrepreneurship 
is a major policy objective in most economies. 
Policymakers recognize that new businesses 
are needed to create new jobs that can replace 
those lost in businesses that are already or are gradually becoming obsolete. New business 
formation is both a symbol of a dynamic economy 
and a key driver of dynamism. Of course, not 
all new businesses grow and prosper, and a 
significant proportion fail during the crucial early 
years of business development. Such failures, 
albeit painful for the would-be entrepreneurs in 
question, can also have human-capital benefits. 
The best of entrepreneurs learn from their 
experiences, pick themselves up, dust themselves 
off and try again!
The decision to start a new business is highly 
personal and depends on the individual’s drive, 
motivation and circumstances. The act of new 
business formation takes place within a context 
of social values and business conditions. This 
entrepreneurial environment may be an important 
influence on the prospects of the new business. 
Take just two examples: easy and affordable 
internet access enables profitable online 
trading, and easy access to finance enables and 
facilitates new investment. On the other hand, 
the entrepreneurial environment may constrain 
or discourage new businesses: for example, 
high fees to register a new business can drive 
entrepreneurs away from the formal economy; or 
existing businesses may collaborate to deter new 
entry.
1.4 GLOBAL REPORT STRUCTURE
The next sections introduce the GEM 2023 
participating economies. They are divided into 
three income groups, because income is often 
a key influence on entrepreneurial attitudes and activities. This introduction then offers a 
first glimpse of the APS data by considering 
the proportion of individuals in each economy 
reporting how their household income changed 
in 2023. The final section draws some brief 
conclusions.
The second chapter briefly lays out the GEM 
conceptual framework and methodology.
Chapter 3, which begins “Part 2: Analysis”, 
examines attitudes and perceptions across 
the entire adult populations in each economy, 
towards — among other things — opportunity 8 According to a recent G20 communiqué, “startups 
have become synonymous with innovation, job 
creation and growth”, G20 India 2023, 2023 Startup20 
Communiqué: Taskforces — Recommendations 
and Policy Directives, p. 16. https://www.
startup20india2023.org
9 See examples throughout this report in our “The Real 
World Behind the Data” features.28 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFunding the Dreams of 
Women Entrepreneurs in 
Developing Countries
The Cartier Women’s Initiative Loan Fund
Women impact entrepreneurs, particularly those 
operating in developing countries, struggle 
to secure financing for their businesses. This 
constrains the sizes of their enterprises and prevents 
them growing their solutions to the scale of the 
problems they are addressing.
Each year, Cartier Women’s Initiative (CWI), founded 
by Cartier in 2006, selects impact entrepreneurs 
from across the world to become their fellows and 
awards them up to €100,000 in grant funding. In 
an effort to further augment this financial support, 
CWI recently partnered with Beneficial Returns and 
launched a CWI Loan Fund for existing fellows.
Through this impact investing debt fund with its 
preferential rate, CWI can accelerate the growth 
of its fellows’ impact businesses while enhancing 
their financial resiliency and priming the pump 
for future investors, both impact and conventional. 
This aligns with CWI’s vision of ensuring that every 
woman impact entrepreneur driving social and 
environmental change can achieve her full potential. 
Infusing flexible loan instruments into early- to 
growth-stage impact businesses demonstrates 
commercial viability and sets the stage for these 
enterprises to scale.
The fund has already issued ten loans, totalling 
$970,000, to nine entrepreneurs across Mexico, 
Uganda, India, Pakistan, the Philippines and 
Indonesia. The industries impacted include 
sustainable agriculture, clean water and sanitation, 
responsible consumption, livelihoods and health.
One of several compelling examples is Valentina 
Rogacheva, co-founder of a digital platform called 
Verqor. This company provides financially excluded smallholder farmers in Mexico with access to 
financing for agricultural inputs such as seed and 
fertilizer. With $200,000 working capital, thanks to 
the CWI Loan Fund, Verqor was able to lend directly 
to partner farmers via the platform.
Then there is Spouts of Water, a Ugandan impact 
business that helps provide clean drinking water 
by manufacturing and distributing ceramic water 
filters. Co-founded by Kathy Ku, since its inception 
the company has distributed over 185,000 filters, 
benefiting individual households, schools, health 
centres, refugee camps and so on. A $200,000 CWI 
working capital loan has enabled Spouts of Water to 
build a larger factory.
CWI will build on these successes and further 
leverage GEM research insights as it looks to 
generate further impact through the fund. Wingee 
SIn, Global Program Director for Cartier Women’s 
Initiative, concluded:
“Through the CWI Loan Fund, we hope to 
accompany further the remarkable impact 
entrepreneurs in our program to further scale 
their impact, and be a source of catalytic 
capital to attract other investors.”
• Consider investing with us! For further details 
please reach out to our Loan Fund partner 
Beneficial Returns at koko@beneficialreturns.com 
and marialuisa@beneficialreturns.com.THE REAL WORLD 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
CWI Loan Fund beneficiary Adriana Luna Diaz. 
Her company Tierra de Monte creates agricultural 
products that renew biodiversity and soil fertility.
29 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportrecognition, the fear of failure, plans to start their 
own business, and investing in someone else’s 
new business.
Chapter 4 focuses on actual levels of 
entrepreneurial activity across the many 
economies participating in the 2023 GEM 
research cycle, identifying the most (and 
least) entrepreneurial economies, as well as 
the most popular sectors in which to start 
new businesses. Year-on-year consistency in 
the APS questions allows the ongoing impact 
of the pandemic on entrepreneurial activity 
to be assessed, at least for those economies 
participating in GEM throughout the last few 
years.
The fifth chapter examines the 
potential economic and social impacts of 
entrepreneurship in each economy, addressing 
the question of whether new startups mean 
more jobs, but also analysing levels of product 
and process innovation in those new startups, 
their customer base and the role of the SDGs.
Chapter 6 identifies the range of diversity of 
entrepreneurs, including by gender, age and 
educational attainment. It confirms that while 
entrepreneurs come in all forms, some groups 
are better represented than others among those 
likely to start a new business.Chapter 7 scrutinizes views and expectations 
of entrepreneurship, including whether it is 
becoming harder to start or grow a business, 
whether the effects of the pandemic have 
increased opportunities, and whether the trend 
towards digital selling has run its course. The 
chapter also considers the impacts of social and 
environmental factors, and awareness of SDGs. 
Chapter 8, the final chapter of Part 2, focuses 
on the motivations for starting a business and 
the level of business exits, classified according 
to whether or not the exit means the business 
continues.
The entrepreneurial environment is a recurrent 
and important theme in this report. Chapter 9 
draws conclusions from the GEM NES, and sets 
the scene for the individual country-specific 
Economy Profiles. This opening chapter of Part 
3 will address the question of where — among 
the participating economies — is the best place 
to start a business and will highlight those 
economies in which starting or growing a 
business is most challenging for entrepreneurs. 
The Economy Profiles feature each GEM 2023 
team. Included are key entrepreneurial variables, 
a brief Policy Roadmap and National Team details.
The report concludes with a data Appendix, 
defining and tabulating all the key variables used.
1.5 GEM 2023 PARTICIPATING ECONOMIES
A total of 46 National Teams participated in the 
GEM APS in 2023. These include Ukraine, whose 
National Team conducted a smaller sample 
Adult Population Survey plus a National Expert 
Survey, albeit under very difficult circumstances. 
In the following chapters, only major results 
for Ukraine’s entrepreneurial activity will be 
reported, given the small sample size and 
understandable difficulties experienced in 
achieving national representation. However, it 
counts as a major achievement by the Ukrainian 
National Team to have any results at all. A further 
three National Teams participated in the NES but 
not the APS.10
Each economy is classified into one of three 
income groups, according to its level of GDP 
per capita.11 Last year, GEM introduced its own 
definitions of low, medium and high income, 
with the aim of ensuring somewhat evenly sized groups for the purposes of analysis. With the same 
aim in mind, these have been revised this year as 
follows:
• Level A: economies with a GDP per capita of 
over $50,000;
• Level B: economies with a GDP per capita 
between $25,000 and $50,000;
• Level C: economies with a GDP per capita of 
less than $25,000.
These boundaries are necessarily arbitrary, but 
will be used throughout this report in presenting 
analyses, results and conclusions. Level A 
economies include 10 from Europe, two from 
North America and three from the Gulf, plus the 
Korean Republic. The Level B economies include 
10 Argentina, Japan and the United Arab Emirates.11 GDP per capita (PPP , international $) and population 
data are from the World Bank database, accessed 
20 October 2023, providing data for 2022, except for 
Venezuela for which the 2021 figure was used. World 
Bank data may have been subsequently revised.30 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report11 from Europe, five from Central or South 
America and three from Asia. Finally, Level C 
economies are more geographically diverse, with six from Central or South America, five 
from Asia, two from Africa, plus Ukraine (see 
Table 1.1).
1.6 CHANGES IN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
The 2023 APS included a question about changes 
in household income, with results set out in 
Figure 1.2. This chart makes it clear that in 2023, 
low-income economies (Level C in Table 1.1), 
were much more likely to have experienced 
a fall in household income than Level B or 
Level A economies. For example, in 11 out of 
14 Level C economies, 40% or more of adults 
reported that their household income had fallen 
in the past year, compared to just four out of 17 
Level B economies, and no Level A economies. 
Unsurprisingly, the highest proportion was in Ukraine, with more than seven out of 10 adults 
reporting a fall in their household income.
Level B Croatia led the way with the highest 
proportion of adults reporting an increase 
in household income in the past year (57%), 
followed by Level A Norway (37%).
Despite this optimistic result for some 
countries, the overall balance of the chart 
is negative, with 33 out of the 46 economies 
reporting a decrease in household income rather 
than an increase. This casts a distinct shadow 
over the strength of any recovery in 2023.TABLE 1.1 
Income groupsLevel A
>$50,000Level B
$25,000–$50,000Level C
<$25,000
Canada
France
Germany
Italy
Rep. Korea
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Slovenia
Sweden
Switzerland
United Arab Emirates*
United Kingdom
United StatesArgentina*
Chile
Croatia
Cyprus
Estonia
Greece
Hungary
Israel
Japan*
Latvia
Lithuania
Oman
Panama
Poland
Puerto Rico
Romania
Slovak Republic
Spain
UruguayBrazil
China
Colombia
Ecuador
Guatemala
India
Iran
Jordan
Mexico
Morocco
South Africa
Thailand
Ukraine
Venezuela
* Participated only in the NES, not the APS. As a result, 46 economies participated in the APS 
(including Ukraine with a limited sample) and 49 participated in the NES31 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report1.7 CONCLUSIONS
A brief review of entrepreneurial activity over 
the first 25 years of GEM suggests that the levels 
have increased overall, that entrepreneurship 
has been consistently resilient during and in the 
aftermath of global crises, and that the rate of 
female entrepreneurship is slowly catching up 
with that of men. These trends certainly have 
positive impacts on SDG 5 (Gender Equality) 
and on SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic 
Growth). As widely reported, including by the United Nations itself, pre-pandemic worldwide 
poverty rates were decreasing, and extreme 
poverty was looking likely to be completely 
eradicated by 2030. However, the reported 
decreases in household incomes identified 
in GEM’s research between 2020 and 2023, 
especially in low-income economies, point 
to likely negative impacts for the desired 
achievement of SDG 1 (No Poverty) and SDG 10 
(Reduced Inequalities).% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf
−/eight.tf/zero.tf−/seven.tf/zero.tf−/six.tf/zero.tf−/five.tf/zero.tf−/four.tf/zero.tf−/three.tf/zero.tf−/two.tf/zero.tf−/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
Ukraine
Venezuela
South Africa
Ecuador
India
Jordan
China
Mexico
Morocco
Thailand
Iran
Guatemala
Brazil
Colombia
Panama
Greece
Poland
Chile
Uruguay
Puerto Rico
Slovak Republic
Lithuania
Spain
Hungary
Cyprus
Estonia
Israel
Latvia
Oman
Romania
Croatia
Republic of Korea
Canada
Italy
Luxembourg
Switzerland
Germany
United States
Sweden
United Kingdom
Qatar
France
Netherlands
Saudi Arabia
Slovenia
NorwayStrongly decrease Somewhat decrease Somewhat increase Strongly increase
Level B Level C Level A
FIGURE 1.2 
The percentage of 
adults reporting a 
change in household 
income in 2023
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 202332 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportThe GEM Conceptual 
Framework and 
Methodology
Stephen Hill and Aileen Ionescu-Somers
2.1 INTRODUCTION
GEM is a long-term multinational research 
study of entrepreneurship, conducted annually 
using population-based data to carefully 
measure the level of entrepreneurship in 
each participating economy. GEM defines and 
measures entrepreneurship as the act of starting 
or running a new business. Note that it is the act 
of entrepreneurship that is the key differentiator: 
simply thinking about starting a business or 
planning to do so at some point in the future is 
not counted, according to the GEM measure of 
entrepreneurial activity.
The GEM Conceptual Framework is illustrated 
in Figure 2.1. It shows the relationship between 
the decision to start a new business and the entrepreneurial environment that impacts that 
decision and its implementation, both directly 
(via access to resources) and indirectly (via social 
priorities and values). The relevant environment 
can be local, regional or national or a mixture 
of all three, depending on the nature of the new 
business and its scale.
The decision to start a business is then 
set within a social, economic and political 
context which conditions that decision in 
terms of variables, including choice of sector, 
scale of operations, and levels of ambition 
and innovation. These variables in turn 
influence the impacts of the new business on 
other factors, such as number of jobs, levels FIGURE 2.1 
The GEM Conceptual 
Framework
Social, cultural, political, 
economic context
National 
Framework 
Conditions
Basic requirements
Efﬁciency enhancers
Innovation and business 
sophisticationEntrepre-
neurial 
Framework 
Conditions
SOCIETAL VALUES ABOUT 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
INDIVIDUAL ATTRIBUTES
(self-perceptions and 
demographics)ENTREPRENEURIAL OUTPUT
(new jobs, new value added)
ENTREPRENEURIAL ACTIVITY
◆ BY PHASE
 Nascent, new, established, 
business exits
◆ BY IMPACT
 High growth, innovative, 
market scope
◆ BY TYPE
 TEA, EBO, EEAOUTCOME
(socio-economic development)2233 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportof value-addition and ultimately economic 
development. At the same time, multiple acts 
of starting new businesses may begin to shift social values, creating more positive attitudes 
to entrepreneurship, and in turn influencing 
potential new entrepreneurs.
2.2 THE GEM METHODOLOGY AND MEASURES OF 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
GEM uses two principal research instruments: 
the Adult Population Survey (APS), a random 
sample of at least 2,000 adults per economy, 
and a National Expert Survey (NES) of at least 36 
national experts per economy. The APS identifies 
the (usually small) proportion of adults who 
are starting or running new businesses. GEM 
refers to this as the level of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity or TEA. Although the 
majority of surveyed adults are not currently 
starting a business, they still provide highly 
valuable information as a result of questions 
asked in GEM surveys. Their responses provide 
insights into their awareness of entrepreneurship 
and of local business opportunities, their view of 
their own competency to start a business, their 
perceptions of how easy it is to start a business 
and whether the fear of failure would stop them 
from doing so. They are also asked whether they 
intend to start a business in future.
In each participating economy, the APS is 
supervised by a GEM National Team, usually of 
academics at top universities, and sometimes by 
another organization with interest and expertise 
in entrepreneurship. These organizations work 
closely with GEM to ensure that the same questions 
are asked in the same way in each participating 
economy, so that answers can be compared across 
economies, and for the same economy over time. 
After the Global Report is published each year, 
National Teams usually produce and publish (also 
online) their own National Reports. These are 
customarily shared on the GEM website (https://
www.gemconsortium.org).12 Each year, new APS 
questions reflect a changing world; for example, 
by asking about the impacts of increasing energy 
prices or of the awareness of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
There are many ways to assess the level 
of entrepreneurial activity in an economy. 
Most official statistics count new firm or tax 
registrations as a measure of entrepreneurial dynamics. These are certainly useful, but only to 
the extent that new businesses register.
In many economies, especially less-developed 
ones, new firm registrations can actually comprise 
just a small proportion of new business startups. 
This can be due to several reasons. For example, 
a business may start off informally and very 
small, an owner may be waiting to see if the 
business works, or, as mentioned, the registration 
process may be expensive, difficult or excessively 
bureaucratic. Another measure is the number of 
self-employed; many self-employed people work 
only for themselves, and may not even perceive 
initially that they are actually running a business. 
Examples could include journalists, musicians 
or taxi drivers. The GEM approach circumvents 
the challenges of collecting comprehensive data 
both by being population-based and by assuring 
anonymity, thus capturing activity in the informal 
economy in a way that official statistics cannot. 
This is a major differentiation factor for GEM in 
comparison with other studies.
The way GEM uses APS data to estimate key 
entrepreneurial variables is set out in Figure 2.2. 
The APS includes a question about whether an 
individual has expended resources (including 
their own time) in trying to start that business, 
such as looking for premises, developing a 
business plan, etc. If the answer is affirmative, a 
follow-up question asks whether that business 
has paid any wages or salaries, including to the 
owner, and, if so, for how long. If those wages 
have not yet been paid for three months or more, 
then GEM classifies this as a nascent business 
and the individual as a nascent entrepreneur. If 
wages have been paid for three months or more, 
but for less than three-and-a-half years, then 
GEM categorizes this as a new business and the 
individual as a new business owner. The sum of 
nascent plus new business owners is Total early-
stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA). If wages 
have been paid for three-and-a-half years or more, 
then, according to GEM, this is an established 
business and the individual is an Established 
Business Owner (EBO).12 See the individual economy profiles in Part 3 of this 
report for details of each National Team.34 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFigure 2.2 illustrates the entrepreneurial 
pipeline, beginning from when potential 
entrepreneurs perceive new opportunities to 
grasp, to when they start expending resources 
to become nascent entrepreneurs, and then 
to become a new business, having paid wages 
for three months. Of course, at any stage the 
entrepreneur can exit that business, which 
may or may not continue without them. If the 
new business endures long enough, it becomes 
established.
The figure also shows the major GEM measures 
of entrepreneurial activity. Each is important, 
especially in relation to the level of TEA. For 
example, a high ratio of TEA to EBO may indicate 
difficulties in transitioning new businesses 
into established ones, sometimes because of an 
unsupportive entrepreneurial environment, while 
a high ratio of TEA to business exits may suggest a 
growing entrepreneurial base.
The decision to start a new business 
inevitably takes place within a particular context, which can be one that either supports 
or constrains the new startup and its subsequent 
development. To assess the quality of each 
national entrepreneurial business context, GEM 
classifies the entrepreneurial environment into 
13 dimensions common to all contexts (referred 
to as the Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions 
or EFCs), and then surveys a group of national 
experts in each country to assess the quality of 
each framework condition. These assessments are 
then harmonized to provide a single figure for the 
quality of that entrepreneurial environment. This 
consistent qualitative data allows a simultaneous 
comparison of national entrepreneurial 
environments. It can also trace the evolution of 
a national entrepreneurial environment over 
time. The NES provides a crucial complement 
to the individual APS. Taken together, these 
unique surveys provide a detailed assessment of 
entrepreneurial activity in each economy, as well 
as the quality of the entrepreneurial ecosystem 
within which that activity takes place.OF AN ES TABLISH ED 
more than 
3.5 yea rs)OF A NE W 
BUSINESS
(up to 3.5 yea rs)EXITING 
THE B USIN ESS
PERSIS TENCE FIRM BIR TH CONCEP TIONTOTAL EARLY-STAGE 
ENTREPRENEURIAL ACTIVITY (TEA)
EARLY-STAGE ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROFILEPOTENTIAL
ENTREP RENEUR:
oppor tunities, capa-
bilities an d intentionsNASCEN T OWNER-MANAGER OWNER-MANAGER
ENTREPRENEU R:
involved in se tting 
up a bu siness
INDIVIDUAL A TTRIBUTES
• Gender
• Age
• MotivationIMPACT
• Business g rowth
• Innovation
• Market scope
•Industry
FIGURE 2.2 
The entrepreneurial 
process and GEM 
indicatorsPART 2
Analysis36 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportEntrepreneurship: Public 
Attitudes and Perceptions
Stephen Hill and Jeffrey Shay
3.1 WHAT ARE THE SOCIAL FOUNDATIONS OF 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP?
The decision to start a business is a personal one, 
influenced by a wide range of factors, including 
the ability to spot business opportunities, 
attitude towards risk, individual ambitions and 
aspirations, the absence or unattractiveness 
of alternative career paths, an individual’s 
confidence in their own abilities, their self-belief, 
familiarity with others entrepreneurs, and their 
own access to resources, including social support. 
This long list is not exhaustive!
Many of these factors are attitudes 
and perceptions, and populations vary 
widely in their degree of social support for 
entrepreneurship — a significant influence on 
those attitudes and perceptions. Of course, 
there are exceptions, and some entrepreneurs 
build successful and sustainable businesses 
with very little encouragement or support. But 
this lack of support can make a difficult task 
even more so.
Starting a business can take many forms, 
and therefore may require different resources, 
abilities and knowledge. A very simple type of 
new business might involve just buying and 
selling, maybe door to door, on the street or 
online. Or the new business could provide a 
service: a personal fitness trainer, an Instagram 
influencer, or even as a designer of production 
lines or delivery schedules. Motivations will 
vary: to supplement an income, to work from home, to be your own boss, or to build the next 
Alphabet or Amazon.
This chapter looks at individual attitudes 
and perceptions across the adult populations. 
It includes whether survey respondents know 
someone who has started their own business, 
whether they think it is easy to start a business, 
and whether they consider they have the 
knowledge, skills and experience required to start 
their own. One factor that has been increasingly 
important in recent years is whether fear of failure 
would deter them from starting. These attitudes 
have a substantial impact on the propensity to 
start a business, and may affect the ability of the 
new business to become a sustainable established 
concern. Respondents are also asked whether 
they intend to start a business in the next three 
years.
Those that intend to start a business number 
many more than those that actually do so, just 
as many more people intend to start a diet or to 
take up exercise compared to those that carry out 
their intentions— there is usually a gap between 
intentions and actions. Finally, some choose 
to invest in another person’s new business. 
The investee business may belong to a friend 
or colleague, but is more likely to belong to a 
family member. Such informal investment can 
be important when it comes to a new business’s 
access to resources.
3.2 WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT STARTING A BUSINESS?
It can be easy to assume that a normal career 
path progresses from education into salaried 
employment, based on the fact that starting a 
business or working for oneself may be outside 
one’s range of experience or expectations. In light of this, familiarity with someone who has started 
a business can be an important precursor to doing 
the same. Similarly, a person may consider that 
starting a business is too difficult, or that there are 
no good business opportunities locally. The GEM 3337 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportAdult Population Survey (APS) explores these 
issues directly, asking all respondents how many 
people they know who have started a business 
in the past two years, whether it is easy to start 
a business locally, and whether, in the next six 
months, there will be good opportunities to start 
a business locally. The 2023 results across 46 
economies are shown in Figures 3.1–3.3.
The proportion of those who know someone 
who has started a business varies considerably 
across economies, from just over one in five 
in Thailand to almost nine out of ten in Saudi 
Arabia. Notwithstanding this exceptional Saudi 
Arabia figure, the proportion appears to decline 
slightly in income groups B and C income 
compared to Level A. There are 11 of 14 group 
C economies having one in two or more adults 
who know an entrepreneur, compared to 10 of 17 
Level B economies and nine of 15 Level A.
Figure 3.2 shows the percentage of adults 
agreeing that it is easy to start a business. It 
varies from less than one in five in Iran, Israel and 
Germany, to more than four out of five in Poland 
and Saudi Arabia. This time the proportion 
agreeing decreases slightly from Level C to Level B 
before increasing to Level A: one in two adults 
or more agreeing in five of 14 Level C economies, 
six of 17 Level B and 12 of 15 Level A. It can be surmised that individuals in Level A economies 
have better access to the resources needed to start 
a business, while in Level C economies many 
people are starting businesses just to survive 
because employment opportunities are scarce. 
As with knowing an entrepreneur, note that 
there is more variation within income groups 
than between those groups, so factors other than 
income are likely to be more important.
One of those factors may be the availability 
of local business opportunities and the ability to 
spot them. The APS asks respondents if they agree 
that, in the next six months, there will be good 
opportunities locally to start a business; note that 
these are respondents’ perceptions. Agreement 
may reflect a low level of local opportunities 
but perceivable to those with a sharp eye, or an 
abundance of local opportunities and a low level 
of opportunity recognition on the part of would-be 
entrepreneurs — or any combination of the two.
While opportunity recognition typically 
declines with income, there is considerable 
variation across economies, with the proportion 
seeing good opportunities ranging from one in 
four in Iran to more than nine out of 10 in Saudi 
Arabia, although, as with the previous two 
figures, perceptions are generally high. In 30 of 
the 46 economies, one in two or more see good % of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
Thailand
South Africa
Morocco
Iran
Mexico
China
Jordan
India
Ukraine
Venezuela
Ecuador
Brazil
Colombia
Guatemala
Greece
Latvia
Estonia
Romania
Poland
Spain
Panama
Hungary
Slovak Republic
Uruguay
Oman
Cyprus
Puerto Rico
Israel
Lithuania
Croatia
Chile
Germany
Republic of Korea
United States
Luxembourg
Italy
Norway
Sweden
Canada
United Kingdom
Qatar
Switzerland
Slovenia
Netherlands
France
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level AFIGURE 3.1 
Knowing someone 
who has started a 
business in the past 
two years (% adults)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 202338 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFIGURE 3.2 In my country, it is easy to start a business (% adults agree)
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
Iran
China
Jordan
Ukraine
Brazil
Venezuela
Colombia
Ecuador
Guatemala
Mexico
Morocco
South Africa
Thailand
India
Israel
Slovak Republic
Puerto Rico
Spain
Latvia
Greece
Romania
Uruguay
Croatia
Lithuania
Hungary
Chile
Cyprus
Panama
Oman
Estonia
Poland
Italy
Germany
Republic of Korea
France
United States
Luxembourg
Qatar
Slovenia
United Kingdom
Canada
Switzerland
Norway
Sweden
Netherlands
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level A
FIGURE 3.3 In the next six months, there will be good opportunities to start a business where I live (% adults agree)
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
Iran
Ukraine
Jordan
Ecuador
Colombia
Mexico
South Africa
Brazil
Venezuela
China
Morocco
Guatemala
Thailand
India
Hungary
Spain
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Latvia
Greece
Israel
Estonia
Panama
Romania
Uruguay
Chile
Lithuania
Puerto Rico
Croatia
Oman
Poland
Italy
Republic of Korea
Germany
United Kingdom
Luxembourg
Slovenia
France
Switzerland
United States
Canada
Netherlands
Norway
Qatar
Sweden
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level A39 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportopportunities, including 11 from Level C, nine 
from Level B and 10 from Level A.
While more than one in two adults in Iran 
know someone who has started a business 
recently, just one in four see good opportunities 
and only one in seven agree it is easy to start.Despite very difficult circumstances, Ukraine 
scores reasonably well for these perceptions, 
with three out of five adults knowing a new 
entrepreneur, and two out of five agreeing it 
is easy to start or there are good opportunities 
locally.
3.3 BUT CAN YOU START A BUSINESS?
The answer to this is clearly yes. Some people 
start the most unlikely businesses in the most 
difficult of circumstances, and some of those 
succeed to become established businesses. 
But you are more likely to start a business, and 
that business is more likely to endure, if you 
see yourself as having the skills, knowledge 
and experience to start that business, and if 
you are undeterred by the fear of failure. These 
self-perceptions are important influences and 
are addressed directly in the GEM APS. Figure 3.4 
delves into this.
The responses vary from just over one in three 
in Israel to more than nine out of 10 in Saudi 
Arabia. However, confidence in one’s own ability 
is typically inversely related to income: two out of 
three adults agree they have the knowledge, skills and experience to start their own business in 10 
out of 14 Level C, six out of 17 Level B and just two 
out of 15 Level A economies. While the knowledge 
and skills necessary to start a business may vary 
by location, and while some people may under- 
(or over-) estimate their own knowledge or what 
is necessary to start a business, there is a wide 
variation within as well as across income groups.
Even if you see good opportunities locally, 
you think starting a business is easy and you 
believe you have the necessary knowledge and 
experience, you may still hesitate to start a 
business because of the fear it might fail. While 
new businesses fail in every economy, the 
consequences of that failure can vary widely, 
depending on culture, societal attitudes and 
economic costs. If failure carries high social or FIGURE 3.4 
I have the 
knowledge, skills 
and experience 
to start my 
own business 
(% adults agree)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
China
Ukraine
Iran
Brazil
Morocco
Mexico
South Africa
Colombia
Jordan
Ecuador
Thailand
Guatemala
India
Venezuela
Israel
Hungary
Estonia
Poland
Slovak Republic
Latvia
Romania
Spain
Greece
Lithuania
Cyprus
Uruguay
Puerto Rico
Oman
Croatia
Chile
Panama
Germany
Switzerland
Netherlands
Sweden
United States
France
Luxembourg
Italy
United Kingdom
Norway
Republic of Korea
Canada
Slovenia
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level A40 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportChengchuan Shi (China)
Cartier Women’s Initiative 2023 Fellow
Overcoming silence: an entrepreneur’s 
journey to empower the hearing-impaired
Businesses start in the most difficult 
circumstances. Sometimes the people running 
them begin with very little capital, skills or 
experience to draw on. And then there is 
Chengchuan Shi. He started an amazing business 
despite having lost hearing in both ears in a 
childhood accident.
This disability only served to strengthen Shi’s 
tenacity. He went on to rank among the top 3% of 
the 500,000+ candidates in his province’s national 
college entrance exam and gained admission to 
the Department of Mathematics at his dream 
school, Jinan University.
As early as 2012 he conceived of the product that 
would eventually become the Voibook app. It was 
around the time when Google had just launched its 
new smart hardware product, Google Glass. As he 
explains:
“I decided to modify this using speech-to-text 
technology to allow speech to be transcribed 
on the glass so hard-of-hearing people can 
communicate more smoothly.”
At the time, the supply chain in China was not 
mature enough for this type of smart glass, so 
Shi transferred his attention to building an app 
that translates speech to text in real time, with 
almost no delay. It uses AI-based voice recognition 
technology to provide two-way speech-to-text 
transcription for in-person as well as phone and 
video communication. The game-like format makes 
the app fun to use.
Over a million people have used Voibook since the 
company began operating in 2016, spending almost 
10 million hours communicating. This offering – 
along with platforms oriented toward government and public service institutions – are becoming 
increasingly important to hearing-impaired people.
Additionally, Chengchuan’s team has recently 
developed simultaneous interpretation functionality, 
which can translate Chinese and English into 
over 300 languages and display them as subtitles. 
Not only can this new feature help the hearing-
impaired, but also people with different language 
backgrounds.
Shi’s aim over the next five to ten years is to get 
Voibook listed on the stock exchange so the 
company can grow. 
“We built our platform to serve the hard of 
hearing. Maybe, over time, fewer people will 
be born with hearing impairments. But, until 
then, we want to provide a service to as many 
people with hearing problems as we can.”
Of the millions of hours hearing-impaired people 
have spent using the Voibook app, each one is made 
more meaningful simply because it has occurred 
between two individuals who have been able to truly 
communicate.HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
41 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reporteconomic costs, individuals may hesitate to start 
a business. Similarly, attitudes towards risk and 
failure also vary widely. Figure 3.5 shows the 
percentage of adults seeing good opportunities 
who agree that they would not start a business for 
fear it might fail.
Once more there is widespread variation, 
including within income groups, from one in 
four of those adults seeing good opportunities 
in Iran and the Korean Republic, to three out 
of five in India, China, South Africa and Saudi 
Arabia. It is interesting that some economies 
with low proportions seeing good opportunities 
(Iran, Republic of Korea, Hungary) also have low 
proportion of those seeing opportunities who 
would be deterred by fear of failure, while many 
economies with high proportions seeing good 
opportunities also have high proportions deterred 
by fear of failure (such as China, India, Canada, 
Poland and Saudi Arabia).
Figure 3.5 clearly shows that fear of failure is 
a major deterrent to starting a business in most 
economies, with two in five or more of those 
seeing good opportunities agreeing that they 
would not start a business for fear it might fail in 
35 of the 46 economies.
Improving opportunity recognition, profiling 
successful entrepreneurs, making it easier to start businesses and equipping enough people 
with the skills and knowledge to start businesses 
can all help to improve the potential level of new 
startups launched, but will count for little when 
so many of those seeing good opportunities are 
deterred by fear of failure. The GEM Global Report 
for 2022 noted that, in 37 out of 49 participating 
economies, two out of five or more of those seeing 
good opportunities would not start because of fear 
of failure, and called for more research into the 
financial, social and psychological costs of failure, 
and actions to mitigate these. Little appears to 
have changed since then.
Delving a little deeper, Figure 3.6 compares 
how men and women view the fear of failure. 
In eight of the 45 economies, the proportion of 
women who see good opportunities but would 
be deterred by fear of failure is less than the 
corresponding proportion of men, meaning that in 
37 of these economies, the proportion of women 
seeing good opportunities but would not start a 
business because of fear of failure is higher than 
the corresponding proportion of men.
Many of the differences in Figure 3.6 are in 
fact very small. In fact, in 17 of the 45 economies, 
there was no significant difference between the 
proportions of men and women seeing good 
opportunities but agreeing that they would not FIGURE 3.5 
You would not 
start a business for 
fear it might fail 
(% of those agreeing 
there are good 
opportunities locally)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf
Iran
Venezuela
Ecuador
Morocco
Colombia
Guatemala
Mexico
Brazil
Ukraine
Thailand
Jordan
South Africa
India
China
Hungary
Lithuania
Oman
Israel
Estonia
Chile
Panama
Puerto Rico
Croatia
Spain
Latvia
Slovak Republic
Uruguay
Poland
Greece
Cyprus
Romania
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
Germany
France
Netherlands
Qatar
Norway
Sweden
Slovenia
United States
Luxembourg
Italy
United Kingdom
Canada
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level A42 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportstart a business for fear it might fail. There are 
two economies in which the proportion of women 
was significantly lower than that of men: India 
and the Republic of Korea. This leaves 26 of 
the 45 economies with a proportion of women 
significantly lower than the corresponding 
proportion of men. The largest difference was in the United Kingdom, where 63% of those women 
who saw good opportunities to start a business 
agreed they would not do so because of the fear 
of failure, compared to just 44% of men who saw 
good opportunities. Campaigns to reduce the 
perceived fear of failure may therefore be more 
effective if aimed at women rather than at the 
general population.
3.4 BUSINESS INTENTIONS
Alongside perceptions and attitudes, the APS 
also asks all respondents about their intentions 
and, in particular, whether they intend to start 
a business within the next three years. While 
intentions do not necessarily turn into actions, 
an intention to start a business is an inevitable 
(albeit insufficient) precursor to doing so.
Figure 3.7 shows the proportion of adults in 
each economy who replied yes to the question 
“Are you expecting to start a new business in the 
next three years?” These affirmative responses 
varied much more widely than the attitudes and 
perceptions already considered in this chapter.
Intentions to start a business were highest in 
Oman (more than three in five), and lowest in 
Poland (just one in 40), but with wide variation FIGURE 3.6 
The percentage of 
men and of women 
who see good 
opportunities also 
agreeing that they 
would not start a 
business because 
it might fail
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf
Iran
Venezuela
Ecuador
Colombia
Morocco
Guatemala
Mexico
Thailand
Brazil
Jordan
South Africa
India
China
Hungary
Lithuania
Panama
Oman
Israel
Chile
Puerto Rico
Estonia
Croatia
Spain
Uruguay
Greece
Latvia
Slovak Republic
Poland
Cyprus
Romania
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
Germany
France
Norway
Netherlands
Qatar
Sweden
Luxembourg
United States
Slovenia
Italy
Canada
Saudi Arabia
United KingdomFemale Male
Level B Level C Level A
Individuals expressing their intention to start a business 
links to UN Sustainable Development Goal #8: Decent 
Work and Economic Growth.
Target 8.3 says: “Promote development-oriented policies 
that support productive activities, decent job creation, 
entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage 
the formalization and growth of micro-, small- and 
medium-sized enterprises, including through access to 
financial services.”
Hence the importance of creating a culture that equips 
individuals with the confidence to start a business.SDG FOCUS . . .
43 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportboth within and across income groups. There 
is some evidence that intentions are inversely 
related to income, with less than one in five adults 
intending to start a business in the next three 
years in five Level C economies, 10 Level B and 12 
Level A. Conversely two out of five adults or more 
intended to start in five Level C economies, three 
Level B and just one Level A.Of the 46 participating economies in 2023, 
there are 12 in which three in 10 adults or more 
intend to start a business in the next three 
years. Seven of those economies are in the 
Latin America and Caribbean region, while 
five are in Asia. Despite making up half of 
GEM 2023 economies, none of these are from 
Europe.13
3.5 CAN YOU INVEST IN SOMEONE ELSE’S NEW BUSINESS?
There are many different ways of being 
entrepreneurial, including starting or running a 
new business, or running an established business. 
People employed by someone else can behave 
entrepreneurially: for example, by setting up new 
businesses for their employer or developing new 
products or processes, etc. A further way of being 
entrepreneurial is by investing in someone else’s 
new business through an informal investment.
Starting a new business requires resources, 
including money. Access to finance can often be 
difficult for those with no track record, and while 
the popular image of the startup is a capital-
intensive graduate high-tech business in a shiny 
new co-working space, the reality can be very 
different, with savings, credit cards, overdrafts and whatever can be borrowed from family, 
friends and colleagues forming the majority of 
startup capital for many new businesses.
There are many reasons to invest in someone 
else’s new business, ranging from the potential for 
high returns to the (possibly more likely) desire 
to help out family or friends. The GEM APS asks 
respondents if, in the past three years, they have 
personally provided funds for a new business 
started by someone else. Figure 3.8 shows that 
the proportion of adults doing so is typically very FIGURE 3.7 
Are you expecting 
to start a business 
in the next three 
years? (% of adults 
responding yes)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf
China
South Africa
Iran
Colombia
India
Morocco
Mexico
Thailand
Guatemala
Jordan
Brazil
Venezuela
Ecuador
Poland
Romania
Hungary
Greece
Spain
Slovak Republic
Lithuania
Estonia
Israel
Latvia
Cyprus
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Oman
Germany
Norway
Switzerland
Italy
Sweden
United Kingdom
United States
Luxembourg
France
Canada
Slovenia
Netherlands
Republic of Korea
Saudi Arabia
Qatar
Level B Level C Level A
13 In GEM 2022, 14 economies out of 49 had three out 
of 10 adults expecting to start a business in the next 
three years. None were from Europe.44 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportlow, but can be significant in certain national 
economies.
In 29 of the 45 economies, less than one 
in 20 adults had invested in someone else’s 
new business in the past three years (nine Level C, 14 Level B and six Level A). This 
was the case for one in 10 or more adults in 
Jordan and in Guatemala, and one in five 
adults in Saudi Arabia and nearly one in four 
adults in Chile.
3.6 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER?
This chapter has examined entrepreneurial 
attitudes, perceptions and intentions across the 
adult populations of participating economies. 
Looking across the different dimensions of 
entrepreneurship’s social foundations, one 
economy is at or near the top on most dimensions: 
Saudi Arabia. Of the 46 economies, Saudi Arabia 
has the highest proportion of adults knowing 
an entrepreneur, agreeing it is easy to start 
a business, seeing good opportunities, and 
viewing themselves as having the knowledge, 
skills and experience to start a business. Saudi 
Arabia also had the second highest proportion 
investing in someone else’s startup, the tenth 
highest proportion of adults intending to start 
a business in the next three years, but also the 
third highest proportion saying that they would 
not start a business for fear it might fail. It is for the Saudi National GEM Team to help us to 
understand these high rankings, but for now it 
can be surmised that having a federally funded 
long-term action plan for entrepreneurship may 
be important.
The overwhelming policy conclusion from 
this chapter is that fear of failure remains a 
formidable obstacle to new startups, especially for 
women. Addressing that fear could involve both 
reducing the economic and social costs of failure, 
and foregrounding the many entrepreneurs 
who have endured failure on the long road to 
eventual success. This could play a significant 
role in promoting SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation 
and Infrastructure) and in moving towards SDG 
10 (Reduced Inequalities), while a campaign to 
reduce the fear of failure among women could 
contribute to SDG 5 (Gender Inequality).FIGURE 3.8 
Investing in 
someone else’s 
new business 
(% of adults)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf
Mexico
Colombia
India
Iran
Ecuador
South Africa
Morocco
Venezuela
China
Thailand
Brazil
Jordan
Guatemala
Romania
Israel
Hungary
Poland
Greece
Spain
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Cyprus
Oman
Slovak Republic
Lithuania
Estonia
Latvia
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Italy
Republic of Korea
United Kingdom
Slovenia
Germany
United States
Norway
Sweden
Netherlands
France
Qatar
Canada
Luxembourg
Switzerland
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level A45 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportLevels of Entrepreneurial 
Activity
Stephen Hill and Sreevas Sahasranamam
4.1 WHAT IS ENTREPRENEURIAL ACTIVITY?
If entrepreneurship is the act of starting a new 
business, any measure of levels of entrepreneurial 
activity should reflect the number of new 
businesses, or, similarly, the number of people 
starting new businesses.
Chapter 2 briefly reviewed different ways of 
measuring entrepreneurship, including official 
statistics such as the number of self-employed or 
the number of new business or tax registrations, 
and pointed to the deficiencies of either measure, 
either by including people who are unlikely to 
consider themselves to be running a business, 
or by omitting those new businesses that are too 
small, or too disinterested for official business or 
tax registration. Instead, the GEM approach is to 
conduct a substantial Adult Population Survey 
(APS) of at least 2,000 adults14 in a stratified 
random sample that reflects the age, location 
and male–female distribution of the underlying 
adult population in each participating economy. 
This sample is then fully representative and, 
because the same questions are asked each year 
and in each economy, comparisons of the level 
of entrepreneurial activity can be made between 
economies and for the same economy over time. 
Inferences can be drawn from these comparisons 
in terms of statistical significance and confidence 
intervals can be estimated for key variables.15 So one economy can be described as having higher 
levels of entrepreneurial activity than another, 
and the evolution of entrepreneurial activity 
within a particular economy can be tracked.
The GEM measure of the level of 
entrepreneurial activity is Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA), or the proportion 
of adults in a particular economy who are starting 
or running a new business. It is reasonable to 
suppose that economies with relatively low levels 
of TEA are missing out on a range of positive 
outcomes, including new jobs, new products 
and new opportunities, which impacts the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including 
SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and 
SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure).
However, TEA is not GEM’s only 
entrepreneurial activity variable. Recall that 
early-stage entrepreneurial activity is defined 
by the business having paid wages or salaries 
for less than 42 months. Any person owning and 
managing a business paying wages or salaries 
for more than 42 months is classed by GEM as an 
Established Business Owner (EBO). Established 
businesses are also important in a dynamic 
economy, providing the bulk of private-sector 
employment and offering some stability in a 
changing world.
4.2 WHERE IS ENTREPRENEURIAL ACTIVITY HIGHEST?
Figure 4.1 shows the levels of TEA and EBO across 
the 46 economies. More than three in 10 adults 
were starting or running a new business in four economies (Guatemala, Ecuador, Chile and 
Panama, all in the Latin America & Caribbean 
region). With some Latin American exceptions, 
14 The APS sample for Ukraine was just over 600. This 
is sufficient to report TEA and EBO (though each with 
a wide confidence interval), but not enough to report 
subdivisions within these.15 So, for example, Country x  may have a level of 
entrepreneurial activity that is significantly greater than 
that of country y , with less than a 5% probability that 
the difference in sample means occurred by chance.4446 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportlevels of early-stage entrepreneurial activity 
generally declined as income increased, although 
the seven lowest levels were all Level B or Level C 
economies.16 There were five Level C economies 
with one in five or more adults starting or running 
a new business, compared to four in Level B and 
just one in Level A. Conversely, Level C had just 
three economies out of 14 with less than one in 10 adults starting or running a new business, 
compared to 13 economies out of 32 in Levels B 
and A combined.
The relationship between early-stage 
entrepreneurial activity and income has been a 
recurring theme in Global Reports over time. As 
in 2022, there is a negative association between 
TEA and income, though with considerable 
variation within income groups, and with nine 
Level A economies having one in 10 or more 
adults starting or running a new business. 
However, in general, as income rises the necessity 
to start a business declines, because there are 
more employment opportunities and better 
support systems. The regional variation in TEA 
rates has also been discussed in previous reports, 
with Latin America & Caribbean emerging as a 
region of high early-stage entrepreneurial activity, 
closely followed in recent years by the Gulf. 
Figure 4.1 provides some support for both of these 
notions. As with many perception variables in the 
previous chapter, Saudi Arabia leads the Level A 
group in terms of early-stage entrepreneurial 
activity.Established businesses (owning and managing a running 
business that has paid salaries, wages or any other 
payments to the owners for more than 42 months) provide 
the majority of employment in most economies, as well as 
stability.
The formation of established business should be a key 
policy objective. It directly connects to ending poverty 
in all its forms (UN SDG #1) and reducing inequalities 
(UN SDG #10).SDG FOCUS . . .
16 Poland, Romania, Morocco, Lithuania, Greece, Spain 
and China.FIGURE 4.1 
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) and 
Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
(both % adults)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf
Morocco
China
Iran
South Africa
India
Jordan
Mexico
Brazil
Ukraine
Venezuela
Colombia
Thailand
Guatemala
Ecuador
Poland
Romania
Lithuania
Greece
Spain
Israel
Hungary
Oman
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Estonia
Croatia
Latvia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Chile
Panama
Norway
Slovenia
Germany
Italy
Sweden
Luxembourg
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
France
United Kingdom
Netherlands
Qatar
United States
Canada
Saudi ArabiaTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A47 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportLevels of EBO are generally lower than TEA, 
and with less variation. Around one in five adults 
owned an established business in Ecuador and 
in the Republic of Korea, but less than one in 
20 adults owned an established business in 11 
economies,17 spread between regions and income 
groups. The association between EBO and income is less clear than that of TEA. In comparison 
to 2022 and 2023, a differing trend is that three 
Level C economies — Morocco, Iran and India — 
show parity or higher levels of EBO than TEA, an 
emerging trend that suggests businesses are also 
sustaining over a longer time in these economies.
4.3 WHAT IS THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LEVELS OF 
EARLY-STAGE AND ESTABLISHED BUSINESS ACTIVITY?
Both are essential for a dynamic economy: new 
businesses bring fresh ideas, often expressed in 
innovative products or processes, and hastening 
structural change. Established businesses provide 
the majority of employment in most economies, 
as well as stability. The entrepreneurial pipeline 
was described in Chapter 2: people become 
nascent entrepreneurs when they start to expend resources in pursuit of their ideas. Soon that 
nascent business becomes a new business, and 
early-stage entrepreneurship is the sum of both,18 
which in turn is sustained into an established 
business, with the entrepreneur becoming an 
Established Business Owner.
A dynamic economy needs people with 
business ideas, people starting and running 
17 Mexico, Oman, Israel, Colombia, the Slovak Republic, 
Germany, China, Luxembourg, Qatar, Venezuela and 
France.FIGURE 4.2 
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) 
plotted against 
Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
(both % adults)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023EBO (% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf)
/zero.tf /five.tf /one.tf/zero.tf /one.tf/five.tf /two.tf/zero.tf /two.tf/five.tf /three.tf/zero.tf /three.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf
TEA (% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf)EstoniaGuatemalaEcuador
ColombiaPanamaChileUruguay
United StatesSaudi Arabia
Puerto RicoBrazil Thailand
Iran
Italy
VenezuelaCanada
UkraineLatvia
Croatia
MexicoJordanIndia
OmanSlovak RepublicSouth AfricaPoland
Cyprus
FranceUnited Kingdom
Netherlands
QatarSwitzerlandRepublic of Korea
Greece
Lithuania
Hungary
SwedenSlovenia
Norway
SpainMorocco
Romania
China
GermanyIsrael
Luxembourg18 See Chapter 2 and Figure 2.2 for the formal GEM 
definition of each stage.48 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportnew businesses, and people owning established 
businesses. One interesting question is what 
numbers, or proportions, are needed in each. 
Without individuals with business ideas, the flow 
of new businesses would soon dry up. Without 
a steady stream of new businesses, the stock of 
established businesses is likely to age and may 
begin to decline as some established businesses 
die out without being replaced.
Figure 4.2 is a simple scatter plot of TEA 
and EBO rates, with each point representing 
an economy. Overall, there is some positive 
association, with both variables increasing 
together, but the association is not strong.19 
Economies with high levels of TEA compared to 
EBO include Colombia, with seven adults starting 
or running a new business for every adult owning 
an established business, Panama and Chile (six 
each) and Mexico and Venezuela (five each). 
One inference may be that, in these economies, 
sustaining a new business long enough for it to 
become established is difficult, possibly because of 
obstacles in the entrepreneurial ecosystem, which could include lack of access to finance, established 
businesses working together to restrict access, 
or a lack of policy support. This disproportion of 
new over established businesses is not confined 
to Latin America or the Level B and C economies. 
Qatar, Canada, France, Luxembourg and the 
United States (all from Level A) have more than 
two adults starting a new business for every adult 
owning an established one.
At the other end of the scale, there are 
nine economies20 with more adults owning 
established businesses than starting or running 
new ones. The highest ratio was in Poland, 
with five adults owning an established business 
for every person starting or running a new 
one, followed by Lithuania, Greece and the 
Republic of Korea, each with more than two 
established businesses for every new one. A 
large disproportion of new over established 
businesses may suggest an insufficient flow 
of new businesses to replenish the stock of 
established ones, and some threat to stability 
(and employment) in that economy.
4.4 DID THE PANDEMIC REDUCE ENTREPRENEURIAL 
ACTIVITY?
This is an important issue, briefly addressed in 
the Introduction and previous Global Reports. The 
2022 Global Report concluded that the evidence 
was mixed. This Global Report has the benefit of 
a further year of data, and the approach adopted 
will be to compare levels of TEA, and levels of 
EBO, for the three years 2019 (pre-pandemic), 2021 
(mid-pandemic) and 2023 (post-pandemic). Of 
course, these are simplifications: the pandemic 
hasn’t really gone away, and there have been other 
issues and crises, including the war in Ukraine.
Thirty-two economies participated in GEM in 
2019, 2021 and 2023, and their respective levels 
of TEA and EBO are shown in Figures 4.3 and 
4.4. Looking first at early-stage entrepreneurial 
activity, there are 14 economies in which TEA 
fell between 2019 and 2021 and then increased 
in 2023, and six each where TEA increased and 
then fell, where TEA fell each period, and where 
TEA increased each period. So mixed evidence 
indeed, although the most common pattern was 
a decrease and then an increase. Interestingly, this pattern (fall and then increase in early-stage 
entrepreneurial activity levels) was more likely in 
Level C and Level B economies (10 out of 18), than 
in Level A economies (four out of 14), perhaps 
reflecting the ability of higher-income economies 
to better support those starting new businesses.
Turning to Established Business Ownership 
reveals a clearer pattern. In 17 of the 32 economies, 
EBO fell between 2019 and 2021, and then 
increased from 2021 to 2023. It increased and then 
fell in five economies, increased and then increased 
again in six economies, and decreased and then 
decreased again in another five economies. Note 
the substantial rise in EBO in the Republic of Korea, 
up from one in eight adults in 2019 to almost one in 
five adults in 2023, and the halving of EBO levels in 
Switzerland over the same period.
Taken together, the evidence on 
entrepreneurial activity levels offers some weak 
support for the notion that levels fell in the early 
stages of the pandemic but have largely recovered 
since then.
19 The correlation coefficient between TEA and EBO is 
0.18.20 India, the Republic of Korea, Norway, Greece, 
Lithuania, Morocco and Poland.49 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf
Iran
South Africa
Morocco
India
Colombia
Brazil
Guatemala
Poland
Spain
Oman
Greece
Croatia
Cyprus
Israel
Slovak Republic
Latvia
Panama
Chile
Italy
Germany
Slovenia
Sweden
Norway
United Kingdom
Switzerland
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Saudi Arabia
Qatar
Republic of Korea
United States
Canada/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/nine.tf /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/one.tf /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/three.tf
Level B Level C Level A% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/two.tf/four.tf/six.tf/eight.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/one.tf/four.tf/one.tf/six.tf/one.tf/eight.tf/two.tf/zero.tf
South Africa
Colombia
Morocco
Iran
India
Guatemala
Brazil
Oman
Croatia
Panama
Israel
Slovak Republic
Spain
Cyprus
Chile
Poland
Latvia
Greece
Qatar
Luxembourg
Italy
Sweden
Germany
Saudi Arabia
Norway
Canada
United Kingdom
Slovenia
United States
Netherlands
Switzerland
Republic of Korea/two.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/nine.tf /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/one.tf /two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/three.tf
Level B Level C Level AFIGURE 4.3 Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA), 2019, 2021 and 2023 (% adults)
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
FIGURE 4.4 Established Business Ownership (EBO), 2019, 2021 and 2023 (% adults)
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 202350 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportGovernment Programs to 
Support Entrepreneurs
MIEPEEC, Morocco
One of the GEM Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (see p. 96) is “Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs”, which serves as a 
measure of a country’s widely available quality 
support programs for entrepreneurs. 
An example of such a program is Morocco’s 
Ministry of Economic Inclusion, Small Business, 
Employment and Skills (MIEPEEC). It is responsible 
for drawing up and implementing government 
policy on labour, employment, vocational 
training, small business and self-employment 
and for evaluating their action plans. As it relates 
to entrepreneurship and economic integration, 
MIEPEEC oversees three major strategic programs: 
1. PNEE 
MIEPEEC is currently in charge of formulating 
Morocco’s new National Employment and Entrepre -
neurship Policy (PNEE) for 2035, with its key objectives 
of increasing employment and incomes, raising the 
activity rate of women, extending social security, and 
reducing the weight of the informal economy.
2. The Awrach Program 
The Awrach Program aims to create 250,000 jobs 
between 2022 and 2024 in the form of “work or 
temporary contracts” entered into by civil society, 
cooperatives and entrepreneurs. Support for 
sustainable integration is an important part of 
the program. It includes an employment support 
bonus for companies for each employee recruited 
for at least one year. This financial support is a key 
component of this national program and is aimed at 
jobseekers, including those without qualifications.
3. The Ana Moukawil Program 
The Ana Moukawil educational program aims to 
support entrepreneurs in starting up, maintaining and developing resilient businesses through a 
structured, innovative and inclusive outreach 
approach. Targeting 100,000 entrepreneurs by 
2026, it offers specific pathways to project leaders, 
self-entrepreneurs, informal economic units and 
very small businesses.
This integrated program comprises several areas of 
intervention tailored to each target/course: guidance, 
advice, support, matchmaking, incentives, etc. This 
is made possible thanks to a reinforced network 
of specialized entrepreneurial support advisors 
(CSAE), a filtered network of external support 
structures (SAE) and a rich portfolio of national and 
international partnerships.
One of its innovations is its digital dimension: it 
will be delivered in blended learning featuring 
a face-to-face offer (individual and group), a 
synchronous online offering and an asynchronous 
online offering.THE REAL WORLD 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to MIEPEEC, one of our report sponsors, for providing this material and 
helping to put our data in a real-world context.IKINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC INCLUSION, SMALL
BUSINESS, EMPLOYMENT AND SKILLSYounes Sekkouri, Minister for Economic Inclusion, 
Small Businesses, Employment and Skills
51 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report4.5 WHICH SECTORS ARE THE NEW BUSINESSES IN?
The choice of sector for a new business is 
important, and not just to the new business 
owner. New businesses help to shift resources 
as new sectors emerge and old ones decline, 
with new firms supplying goods and services 
that people or businesses want, replacing those 
businesses that may have been slow to respond to 
changing tastes.
For the person determined to start their own 
business, the easiest sectors to enter are those 
that require little capital or specialist knowledge. 
Unfortunately, this ease of entry comes at a price: 
any such sector is likely to be fiercely competitive, 
driving prices, and therefore margins, down, 
and making it difficult to sustain the competitive 
edge necessary for the new business to persist. 
These highly competitive sectors include 
personal services such as taxi driving, cleaning 
or delivering, as well as retailing or selling fast 
food. Products and services that require specialist 
inputs, such as highly developed skills like coding 
or content creation, are much more difficult 
to duplicate, and so are much more likely to 
retain good margins into the future. Easy-entry 
sectors are typically in Consumer Services, while Business Services are usually more difficult to 
enter.
The GEM APS asks those starting or running 
new businesses to describe their business. Based 
on this information, the business is allocated to 
one of four broad sectors: Extractive (agriculture, 
mining); Transformative (manufacturing and 
logistics); Business Services (information 
technology, professional services) or Consumer 
Services (retailing, hotels and restaurants, and 
personal services). Of the economies participating 
in GEM in 2023, only four had one in three or more 
of their new businesses outside of the Consumer 
and Business Services sectors (Mexico, Uruguay, 
Romania and Hungary), usually reflecting specific 
resources in that economy such as mining, 
refining or agriculture.
Figure 4.5 shows the proportion of new 
businesses by economy in the Consumer Services 
and Business Services sectors, and illustrates a 
clear relationship with income level, with the 
share of Consumer Services typically declining 
with income level while the share of Business 
Services usually rises. For example, Consumer 
Services account for more than two out of FIGURE 4.5 
Business Services 
and Consumer 
Services (% TEA)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
India
South Africa
Ecuador
Colombia
Venezuela
Guatemala
Thailand
Morocco
Jordan
Mexico
China
Brazil
Iran
Oman
Uruguay
Panama
Romania
Chile
Puerto Rico
Poland
Latvia
Greece
Estonia
Cyprus
Hungary
Lithuania
Slovak Republic
Croatia
Spain
Israel
Saudi Arabia
Republic of Korea
United States
Qatar
Netherlands
Italy
United Kingdom
Luxembourg
Canada
Sweden
Slovenia
Germany
France
Norway
SwitzerlandBusiness-oriented services Consumer-oriented services
Level B Level C Level A52 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportthree new businesses in 10 out of 13 Level C 
economies, and only one out of 32 Level B and 
Level A economies (Saudi Arabia). Of the Level C 
economies, only Iran has less than half of its new 
businesses in Consumer Services, compared to 11 
out of the 22 Level B or Level A economies.
Turning to Business Services, only Iran and 
Brazil in the Level C economies group have more than one in 10 of adults starting or running new 
business in the Business Services sector, while of 
the Level A or B economies only three (Uruguay, 
Oman and Saudi Arabia) have less than one in 
ten starting in Business Services. The highest 
proportions of Business Services startups, at more 
than one in three, are in Croatia, Spain, Israel, 
Norway and Switzerland.
4.6 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS 
CHAPTER?
Early-stage entrepreneurial activity levels in 2023 
were highest in four Latin America & Caribbean 
economies (Guatemala, Ecuador, Chile and 
Panama), each with more than three out of 10 
adults starting or running new businesses. Early-
stage entrepreneurial activity levels were lowest 
in five European economies plus Morocco and 
China, all from Levels B or C.
This chapter pointed to five economies, all 
in the Latin America & Caribbean region, with 
five or more people starting new businesses for 
every person owning an established business. 
Economies with such disproportionate 
numbers need to consider carefully what 
obstacles are preventing new businesses from 
becoming established, and then overcome 
these. This is important if they want to realize 
the economic stability and employment that 
those new businesses could bring by surviving 
into maturity. Such scaling-up of new business is key in meeting the UN SDGs (SDG 8 and SDG 
9) and is duly recognized as a priority among 
G20 nations in their recent Startup20 policy 
paper.
There are also a small number of economies 
in which few people are starting new businesses 
relative to those owning established businesses. 
These economies need to consider carefully 
how to encourage new startups, or else face the 
very real prospects of their stock of businesses 
declining.
Less-well-off economies tend to have high 
proportions of their new businesses in the 
Consumer Services sectors, an understandable 
situation that may not be in the long-term 
interests of either the individuals starting 
those businesses or their overall economies. 
Encouraging new startups in the Business 
Services sectors could facilitate structural change 
in those economies.53 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportThe Social and 
Economic Impacts of 
Entrepreneurship
Stephen Hill and Maribel Guerrero
5.1 WHAT DETERMINES THE IMPACT OF NEW STARTS?
This report has already noted that new businesses 
can bring change. This manifests in new ideas, 
which are embodied in new products or services. 
Some of these innovations may address needs we 
were not aware of. Additionally, new businesses 
bring change by adopting new processes or 
technologies. They also open up new sectors or 
markets, accelerating the closure of old ones. This 
closure often occurs by introducing ideas from 
elsewhere, rather than entirely novel concepts.
Not every new business is a disruptor, bent 
on changing the world: some may exit as quickly 
as they arrived, others simply replace existing 
businesses, yet more employ no one but the 
owner, and often never will (the so-called “solo 
entrepreneurs”). These will impact in different 
ways and to different levels. An important 
question, then, is: “What will be the impacts of a 
particular new business?”
The simple answer is that we cannot know, 
but there are several current attitudes and 
perceptions that we do know and which make 
significant impacts more likely. The impacts 
of the new business will be determined by its 
growth trajectory in terms of size and scope, as 
measured by outputs, turnover, jobs and value-
added, each depending on the sector chosen and 
on the potential demand for any new product or 
service, how that new business interacts with local suppliers, whether its sales are local or 
international, etc.
So, while the impact of the new business 
cannot be known or measured, there are a 
number of personal and organizational factors 
that are likely to influence economic impact. 
One is the current employment level and job 
growth expectations of the new business. While 
expecting to grow is an important precursor to 
organic growth, just as not expecting to grow is 
liable to be self-fulfilling, the current employment 
level of the new business shows jobs already 
created. Another is the level of innovativeness in 
terms of new products and processes. A third is 
the scope of the business’s customers, whether 
they are local, national or international. All of 
these are assessed in the GEM Adult Population 
Survey (APS).
Nor is all impact economic. Many new 
businesses are focused on social or environmental 
objectives, such as creating jobs and income 
for disadvantaged groups, providing recycling 
facilities or improving local air quality. Many of 
these impacts are reflected in the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), so this 
chapter will also look at whether those starting 
new businesses are doing so in pursuit of the 
SDGs.
5.2 HOW MANY PEOPLE WILL THE NEW BUSINESS EMPLOY?
Individuals starting new businesses and 
expecting to employ many people in the future 
are likely to have much more impact than those 
who expect to employ nobody but the founder. The APS asks those starting or running new 
businesses how many people they expect to 
employ in five years’ time. The results are shown 
in Figure 5.1.5554 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportThe lowest job growth expectations (in terms of 
percentage of adults) were in Ecuador, where one in 
five adults was starting or running a new business 
and expecting to employ no more people in five 
years’ time, and in Canada, where that proportion 
was one in 10. There were also three economies, 
Poland, Greece and the Republic of Korea, in 
which just one in 100 adults or less was starting or 
running a new business and expecting to employ 
no more people in five years’ time.
The highest job growth expectations (as a 
percentage of adults) were in the Latin America 
& Caribbean region, home to eight of the 11 
economies having more than one in 20 of their 
adults starting or running a new business and 
expecting to employ another six people or more in 
five years’ time. The others were Thailand, Saudi 
Arabia and Qatar, the latter two being the only 
Level A economies in this category.
Turning to those starting or running a new 
business, more than half were expecting to 
employ no more people in five years’ time in two 
Level C, five Level B and six Level A economies. 
Hence the expectation of a new entrepreneur 
employing no more people increases with income 
group. In 29 of the 45 economies spread across all income groups, less than one in four new 
entrepreneurs is expected to employ no more 
people in five years’ time.
The lowest shares of new entrepreneurs 
expecting to employ another six or more people 
in five years’ time were in India, Ecuador, Spain 
and Greece. At the same time, there were nine 
economies in which three in 10 new entrepreneurs 
or more expected to employ at least another six 
people, three from Level C (Mexico, Brazil and 
Thailand), four from Level B (Puerto Rico, the 
Slovak Republic, Latvia and Chile), and just Qatar 
and Saudi Arabia from Level A. In terms of job 
growth expectations, Latin America & Caribbean 
lead the way, although closely followed by two 
Gulf economies. Job expectations in Europe & 
North America were typically much more modest.
The job growth expectation analysis showed 
interesting patterns. It may also be interesting 
to compare these job expectations to the current 
employment levels of new businesses: in 
other words, to know what proportion of new 
entrepreneurship represents “solo entrepreneurs” 
(defined as one owner, no employees) and what 
currently represents “high jobs” (defined as five or 
more employees).FIGURE 5.1 
Job growth 
expectations 
among early-stage 
entrepreneurs 
expecting to employ 
0, 1–5 or 6 more 
people in five years’ 
time (% adults)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf
Mexico
China
Morocco
Iran
South Africa
Venezuela
India
Colombia
Guatemala
Jordan
Brazil
Thailand
Ecuador
Poland
Romania
Cyprus
Greece
Lithuania
Puerto Rico
Slovak Republic
Spain
Hungary
Latvia
Israel
Estonia
Croatia
Panama
Chile
Oman
Uruguay
Republic of Korea
Luxembourg
Norway
Slovenia
Saudi Arabia
Germany
Qatar
United States
United Kingdom
France
Italy
Sweden
Switzerland
Netherlands
Canada/zero.tf jobs /one.tf–/five.tf jobs /six.tf+ jobs
Level B Level C Level A55 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportNot surprisingly, in Figure 5.2, the proportion 
of solo entrepreneurs usually exceeded that of 
those currently employing five or more people 
(except in Qatar and Saudi Arabia). There were 
eight economies, from all income groups, where 
more than one in two of those adults starting or 
running a new business were solo entrepreneurs, 
rising to 29 economies with two in five or more solo 
entrepreneurs. To be currently employing five or 
more was much less likely, accounting for less than 
one in 20 new entrepreneurs in 14 economies, again 
from all income groups, but reaching one in five or more in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, China, Germany and 
Canada, and one in 10 or more in eight others.
Of the 13 economies with half or more of their 
new entrepreneurs expecting to employ no more 
people in five years’ time, all but three had at least 
two out of five solo entrepreneurs. The exceptions 
were Oman, the Netherlands and Canada. 
Additionally, both Saudi Arabia and Qatar each 
had high proportions already employing five or 
more people, and high proportions expecting to 
employ at least another six people in five years’ 
time.
5.3 HOW INNOVATIVE ARE NEW BUSINESS PRODUCTS OR 
SERVICES?
This report has pointed to the ability of new 
businesses to bring in new ideas and ways of 
working, expressed in new products or services, 
or in the use of new technologies or processes. But 
in practice, how innovative are those starting new 
businesses? Are their new products totally unique 
(new to the world), or brought in from outside the 
country (new to the country), or from other parts 
of their own country (new to the area)?The GEM APS addresses this issue by asking 
those starting or running a new business if any of 
their products, services, technologies or processes 
are new to their area, to their country or to the 
world. Results are shown in Figures 5.3 and 5.4. 
Not surprisingly, totally new products or processes 
are very rare indeed.
In 37 out of 45 economies, less than one in 100 
adults was starting or running a new business FIGURE 5.2 
The percentage of 
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) 
who are solo 
entrepreneurs 
(one owner, no 
employees) and 
those currently 
employing five 
or more people
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf
China
South Africa
Mexico
Venezuela
Jordan
Morocco
Colombia
Thailand
Iran
Brazil
Guatemala
India
Ecuador
Greece
Panama
Cyprus
Uruguay
Oman
Hungary
Latvia
Spain
Poland
Romania
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Lithuania
Chile
Estonia
Slovak Republic
Israel
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Norway
Netherlands
Canada
Luxembourg
Switzerland
Italy
Germany
United States
Sweden
France
Republic of Korea
Slovenia
United KingdomSolo entrepreneur Currently has /five.tf or more employees
Level B Level C Level A56 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportproducing goods and services that were new to 
the world. The highest level by far was in Chile, 
at just over 3%. Products or services new to the 
country were not quite as rare, but only reached 
2% or more of adults in just four economies (Chile, 
Panama, Puerto Rico and Canada). Finally, new 
to the area was more common, but still exceeded 
5% of adults in just nine economies (five Level C, 
three Level B and one Level A).
The results in Figure 5.3 are in terms of the 
percentage of adults starting or running a new 
business and introducing products or services 
that are new, at least to their area. It is useful to 
compare these results to the Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) in each economy, 
or the total percentage of adults starting or 
running a new business in each economy. In eight 
economies (five Level C and three Level B), less 
than one in five of those starting or running a 
new business was doing so with a new product or 
service to the area, country or world. Only seven 
economies had two in five new entrepreneurs 
or more introducing new products or services 
(three Level A [Luxembourg, Italy and Sweden], 
two Level B [Chile and Panama] and two Level C 
[Mexico and Guatemala]).Figure 5.4 presents similar results for new 
technologies or procedures. The share of 
adults starting or running a new business with 
technologies or processes that are new to the 
world exceeds one in a 100 in just five economies: 
Chile, Panama, Cyprus, Canada and France. 
Similarly, 12 economies (two from Level A and five 
each from Levels B and C) had less than one in 
five new entrepreneurs using new technologies 
or processes in their area, country or world. Only 
nine economies had two in five or more of their 
new entrepreneurs using new technologies or 
processes: three from Level A (Qatar, Luxembourg 
and Italy), three from Level B (Chile, Panama 
and Croatia) and three from Level C (Guatemala, 
Mexico and South Africa).
A small number of the same economies 
appear on the shortlists of both most innovative 
in terms of the proportion of new entrepreneurs 
introducing new products or services, and most 
innovative in terms of using new technologies 
or processes: Luxembourg, Italy, Chile, Panama 
and Mexico. These trends reveal that a high 
income level is not a necessary condition for 
entrepreneurial innovation, nor is low income 
necessarily a constraint.FIGURE 5.3 
The percentage 
of adults starting 
new businesses 
with products or 
services that are 
new to their area, 
country or the world
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/two.tf/four.tf/six.tf/eight.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/one.tf/four.tf/one.tf/six.tf/one.tf/eight.tf/two.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
China
Iran
Brazil
Jordan
India
South Africa
Venezuela
Ecuador
Colombia
Mexico
Thailand
Guatemala
Lithuania
Poland
Romania
Greece
Oman
Israel
Spain
Slovak Republic
Hungary
Estonia
Cyprus
Latvia
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Republic of Korea
Norway
Slovenia
Germany
United Kingdom
Switzerland
Sweden
Italy
Luxembourg
France
Qatar
Netherlands
United States
Saudi Arabia
CanadaNew to their area New to their country New to the world
Level B Level C Level A57 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report5.4 HOW COMPETITIVE ARE NEW BUSINESSES?
There are a number of ways to assess the 
competitiveness of a business: by its changes in 
market share, by the responsiveness of demand 
to changes in price, by the effects of price 
changes by one business on the sales of another, 
or by the unit labour costs of each. This kind of 
data cannot be derived from the responses in 
the APS; however, some inferences can be made 
from the replies to questions about the scope 
of a new business’s customers or whether that 
new business only had customers within their 
own local area, only within their own country or 
had international customers as well. Some care 
must be taken in interpreting these responses, 
because the definition of a local area may well 
depend on the size of the individual country: in 
relatively small countries like Cyprus or Qatar, 
local and national markets may be virtually 
synonymous.
Having customers beyond the local area is 
important in terms of impact because it brings 
money into the local economy, and because a 
diversified customer base increases resilience and 
reduces dependency on that local economy.Figure 5.5 shows Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) levels and 
businesses with local customers, only customers 
within their country or with customers outside 
their country. The percentage of adults in each 
category clearly depends on the level of TEA in 
each economy (the height of each column in 
Figure 5.5), as well as its distribution between 
the categories. There are five economies in 
which more than a quarter of adults were FIGURE 5.4 
The percentage of 
adults starting new 
businesses using 
technologies or 
processes that are 
new to their area, 
new to their country 
or new to the world
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/two.tf/four.tf/six.tf/eight.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/one.tf/four.tf/one.tf/six.tf/one.tf/eight.tf/two.tf/zero.tf
China
Morocco
Iran
Jordan
India
Ecuador
Brazil
South Africa
Venezuela
Colombia
Thailand
Mexico
Guatemala
Lithuania
Poland
Romania
Oman
Greece
Israel
Spain
Estonia
Hungary
Latvia
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Norway
Republic of Korea
Slovenia
Germany
United Kingdom
Switzerland
Sweden
France
Italy
Luxembourg
United States
Netherlands
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
CanadaNew to their area New to their country New to the world
Level B Level C Level A
A number of the targets under UN SDG #9 – Build 
resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization and foster innovation – relate to the 
themes of competitiveness and innovation described in 
this chapter.SDG FOCUS . . .
58 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportstarting or running new businesses with only 
local customers, four from the Latin America 
& Caribbean region, plus Saudi Arabia. Many 
economies had low proportions of adults starting 
or running new businesses with only local 
customers: 33 out of 45 had less than one in 20.
The proportion of adults starting or running 
a new business with just national customers 
was typically low, with just seven economies 
in which that proportion exceeded one in 10 
(three Level C and Level B and one Level A). 
Finally, and as expected, relatively few adults 
were starting or running a new business with 
international customers, with 2% of adults or 
less in 18 of the 45 economies (nine Level C, six 
Level B and three Level A), and just 4% or more in 11 economies (one Level C, and five each from 
Levels A and B). There is therefore some evidence 
that the percentage of adults starting or running 
businesses with international customers increases 
with income level.
This is confirmed by examining the proportion 
of new entrepreneurs with international 
customers. Among Level C economies, 13 had 
one in five or less of their new entrepreneurs 
with international customers, compared to 
seven Level B economies and just two Level A. 
Not surprisingly, many lower-income economies 
have high proportions of only local customers, in 
fact forming the majority of customers for seven 
Level C economies, three from Level B but no 
Level A.
5.5 HOW EXPORT-INTENSIVE ARE NEW BUSINESSES?
The previous section showed that new 
entrepreneurs with international customers were 
relatively scarce, especially in Level C economies. 
The export-intensity of new businesses will be 
determined by a host of factors, including how 
easy it is to transfer the product or service abroad, whether it is available online, how public policy 
encourages or restricts exports, the ability to 
convert currency easily and cheaply and levels 
of tariffs and duties. Is language or culture a help 
or a hindrance? Finally, is the new business in a 
small economy with larger neighbours?FIGURE 5.5 
The level of Total early-
stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) and 
those within this 
with only local 
customers, only 
national customers, 
or with international 
customers (%)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf
Morocco
China
Iran
India
South Africa
Jordan
Mexico
Brazil
Venezuela
Colombia
Thailand
Ecuador
Guatemala
Poland
Romania
Spain
Greece
Lithuania
Israel
Hungary
Oman
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Croatia
Estonia
Latvia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Norway
Slovenia
Germany
Italy
Sweden
Luxembourg
Switzerland
Republic of Korea
France
United Kingdom
Netherlands
Qatar
United States
Canada
Saudi ArabiaLocal only National International
Level B Level C Level A59 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportGilles Suard (Switzerland)
Founder, Almighty Tree
How educational experiences can help 
inspire and inform future entrepreneurs
One of the interesting metrics in GEM’s Adult 
Population Survey is level of educational 
attainment. A great example of someone 
whose higher-education experience led to the 
launch of a company is Gilles Suard, founder of 
Almighty Tree and a graduate of the School of 
Management Fribourg (HEG-FR), University of 
Applied Sciences and Arts Western Switzerland 
(HES-SO).
The mission of Almighty Tree is to mitigate 
climate change, create a cleaner environment, 
and raise awareness about the role of business 
and the general public as carbon emitters. In 
response, the company plants trees in Switzerland 
and abroad.
“On one hand, my education inspired me 
to launch a business and, on the other 
hand, it prepared me to face the challenges 
associated with such an adventure.”
During Gilles’ studies (MSc BA, major in 
entrepreneurship), he was exposed to success 
stories, entrepreneurs’ presentations/lectures, 
case studies on entrepreneurship and innovation, 
company visits, and the entrepreneurship ecosystem 
in Boston, MA.
“Such action-oriented activities inspired me, 
influenced my career choices and reinforced 
my deep desire to be an entrepreneur. I also 
received the appropriate knowledge for 
execution, from idea to the market. I was 
able to learn about the wide spectrum of 
fields needed to launch a business, such as 
marketing, finance, law, growth management 
and leadership.”During his studies, he took part in Venture In Action, 
a project that allowed students to launch a real 
business. He went through all the steps required: 
he pitched an idea, created a team, tested and 
challenged the original idea, launched a go-to-
market strategy, and truly lived an authentic 
entrepreneurial journey. In the process, he saw 
first-hand the importance of perseverance.
Gilles efforts are paying off. The company has grown 
incrementally each year, going from 2,000 trees in 
2020, to 10,000 then 15,000 trees in the following 
years, reaching 25,000 trees in 2023. The projection 
for next year is to surpass 35,000 and generate a 
revenue of 1 million Swiss francs for the first time. 
There are 190 companies working with Almighty 
Tree.
In conclusion, Gilles explained:
“All my educational experiences informed me 
about how hard it is at the beginning of a 
venture and taught me how to keep going.”HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the School of Management Fribourg (HEG-FR), one of our report 
sponsors, for providing this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.60 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFor a new business that is able to export, 
the opportunities are endless, while the host 
economy also benefits from the flow of money 
from abroad. The APS asks those starting or 
running a new business what percentage of 
revenue they anticipate coming from customers 
outside of their own country. GEM defines a 
new business as export-intensive if its owner 
anticipates receiving 25% or more of its revenue 
from abroad. Figure 5.6 shows the percentage of 
those starting or running new businesses within 
this category.As anticipated, there is some positive 
association with income, with just one Level C 
economy (South Africa) having one in 10 or 
more of its new businesses classed as export-
intensive, compared to nine Level B economies 
and 13 from Level A. Export-intensity levels 
were lowest in Ecuador, Guatemala, India 
and Brazil (all less than 2%) and highest in 
Luxembourg (where two in five new businesses 
were export-intensive), followed by Estonia, 
Slovenia, Latvia and Croatia (all one in four or 
more). There are exceptions, with Level A Saudi 
Arabia and the Republic of Korea each having 
one in 20 or less of their new entrepreneurs 
classed as export-intensive. Relatively small 
Qatar (with some very big neighbours), only 
just exceeded one in 10 of its new entrepreneurs 
being export-intensive.FIGURE 5.6 
The percentage 
of those starting 
or running new 
businesses in each 
economy and 
anticipating 25% 
or more of revenue 
coming from 
customers outside 
that economy
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf/four.tf/zero.tf
Ecuador
Guatemala
India
Brazil
Colombia
Morocco
Iran
Venezuela
China
Mexico
Jordan
Thailand
South Africa
Poland
Uruguay
Chile
Lithuania
Oman
Panama
Romania
Hungary
Slovak Republic
Puerto Rico
Israel
Spain
Greece
Cyprus
Croatia
Latvia
Estonia
Republic of Korea
Saudi Arabia
Italy
Qatar
Norway
France
Netherlands
United States
United Kingdom
Switzerland
Sweden
Canada
Germany
Slovenia
Luxembourg
Level B Level C Level A
UN SDG #17 is about strengthening the means of 
implementation and revitalizing the global partnership for 
sustainable development. It is encouraging that many new 
entrepreneurs have identified SDGs as a priority.
As entrepreneurs become more aware of and connect their 
businesses to an SDG, they are better positioned to support 
this goal.SDG FOCUS . . .
61 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report5.6 ARE NEW STARTUPS FOCUSED ON THE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG S)?
Since 2021, the GEM APS has asked those starting 
or running new businesses if they have identified 
any of the SDGs as a priority for their business. 
This question is optional for National Teams. 
In 2023, 33 of the National Teams participating 
in the GEM APS asked this question, and the 
percentage of new entrepreneurs confirming that 
they had identified a SDG as a priority is shown in 
Figure 5.7 .
In 2023, the lowest levels were in the Republic 
of Korea, Estonia and Colombia (each around 
three in 10, and all separated by around 10 
percentage points from the next lowest), while 
the highest levels were in South Africa, China, 
Thailand, Canada, Lithuania and Mexico (each 
seven in 10 or more). So, there is no discernible 
association between the proportion of new 
entrepreneurs identifying SDG goals as a priority 
and either income level or geographic region, since high and low levels can be found in all 
income groups and all regions. However, there 
is strong evidence that many new entrepreneurs 
have identified an SDG as a priority, with the 
proportion doing so exceeding one in two in 25 of 
the 33 economies.
This question has been asked since 2021. 
However, the evidence is inconclusive about 
whether the proportion of new entrepreneurs 
with SDGs as a priority is increasing or not. There 
are 21 economies whose National Teams have 
asked this question in the GEM APS in each of the 
three years. Over this period, in 12 economies the 
proportion increased but in nine it fell. Many of 
these changes were very small, with the largest 
increases in the Slovak Republic (up from 43% to 
66%) and in South Africa (64% to 81%), while the 
largest falls were in Colombia (83% to 31%) and in 
Greece (85% to 54%).FIGURE 5.7 
The percentage 
of those starting 
or running new 
businesses in each 
economy who 
have identified 
a Sustainable 
Development Goal 
as a priority for 
that business
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf
Colombia
Ecuador
Morocco
Jordan
India
Mexico
Thailand
China
South Africa
Estonia
Israel
Latvia
Chile
Greece
Hungary
Uruguay
Spain
Croatia
Poland
Romania
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Lithuania
Republic of Korea
France
Norway
Slovenia
Switzerland
Italy
Netherlands
Luxembourg
Qatar
Canada
Level B Level C Level A62 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportA University Entrepreneurship 
Centre Helping a Country’s 
Entrepreneurial Ecosystem
Hassan II University of Casablanca
In most economies, entrepreneurial education at 
schools continues to be assessed as poor. However, 
as this GEM Global Report notes, there are 
encouraging signs from a number of universities.
The Hassan II University of Casablanca (UH2C) is 
contributing to Morocco’s national entrepreneurial 
dynamic through a number of programs while also 
carrying out research and development projects for 
the benefit of industry and innovation.
UH2C’s student support structures dedicated to 
promoting entrepreneurship are carried out by its 
Career Center, the incubators of the university and 
its various establishments, and the Innovation and 
Technology Transfer Center, with the support of a 
number of partners such as the Casablanca-Settat 
Regional Council. Initiatives include:
• National Status for Student Entrepreneurs 
(SNE). An initiative of the Ministry of Higher 
Education, Scientific Research and Innovation, 
to help students set up a business during their 
studies.
• Career Center UH2C. Created by USAID, 
this is deployed in several universities and 
aims to provide individual coaching and 
support workshops, led by entrepreneurship 
professionals.
• Yabda Entrepreneurship Center. This offers 
training and support for business startups 
• ANAPEC UH2C University Agency. UH2C and 
ANAPEC (National Agency for the Promotion 
of Employment and Competencies) partner to 
provide students with information, guidance 
and training workshops linked to the promotion 
of entrepreneurship.• Hassan II University Incubators. These enable 
young entrepreneurs to benefit from support, 
infrastructure and resources, as well as the 
university’s network of partners. One example is 
BlueSpace, a partnership between the Faculty 
of Law, Economics and Social Sciences – Ain 
Chock (located at UH2C) and the Bank of 
Africa. Its aim is to help entrepreneurs develop 
innovative, sustainable businesses that create 
jobs, through training and coaching services 
and co-working spaces.
Research
The “Entrepreneurship and SMEs” research 
laboratory at UH2C, in charge of the GEM Morocco 
study since 2015, aims to advance knowledge and 
support the development of entrepreneurship 
across three broad areas. (1) Research — creating 
an environment conducive to increasing scientific 
knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship, training 
new researchers, and experimenting with new 
theories. (2) Studies/Consultancy — macro and 
micro studies on behalf of government institutions, 
professional associations within the framework of 
sectoral studies, and international organizations. 
(3) Training — of future entrepreneurs and 
mentors, notably through the Master’s degree in 
Entrepreneurial Mentoring, the fruit of a partnership 
between the Faculty of Law, Economics and 
Social Sciences – Ain Chock and the Mohamed V 
Foundation for Solidarity, through the Center for 
Solidarity-based Very Small Enterprises (CTPES).THE REAL WORLD 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to Hassan II University of Casablanca, one of our report sponsors, for 
providing this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
63 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report5.7 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS 
CHAPTER?
Although it is difficult to predict the future of a 
specific new business, new entrepreneurs’ current 
attitudes and expectations can provide insights 
into their businesses’ potential impacts. These 
include their job expectations, the scope of their 
customers, the level of innovativeness of their 
new businesses, and their anticipated export-
intensity. Potential social impact can be indicated 
by whether the new business has considered one 
or more of the Sustainable Development Goals.
In 13 of the 45 economies, more than half of 
new entrepreneurs expected to employ no more 
people in five years’ time than they do now. Job 
growth expectations were generally highest in 
Latin American & Caribbean economies, with 
each of Puerto Rico, Chile, Brazil, and Mexico 
having more than three in 10 of their new 
entrepreneurs expecting to employ another six or 
more people in five years’ time, although Qatar 
was highest with more than one in two. New jobs 
and job expectations in European economies 
were typically much more modest. European 
economies, and perhaps the European 
Union, need to find ways to encourage new 
businesses to take on more employees, 
maybe by reducing the operational costs or 
challenges of tax requirements and labour 
market regulations.
Innovation in terms of introducing products or 
services that were at least new to their area was 
less than widespread, with nine economies having 
less than one in five of their new entrepreneurs 
introducing new products or services, only one 
of which was in Latin America & Caribbean. By 
contrast, seven economies had two in five or 
more of those starting or running a new business 
and introducing products or services that were 
at least new to the area: four were from Latin 
America & Caribbean. Results for introducing 
new technologies or processes were very similar. 
Just six out of 45 economies had two or more 
new entrepreneurs introducing new products 
or services, and two or more new entrepreneurs 
using new technologies or processes: 
Luxembourg, Italy, Chile, Panama and Guatemala. 
Having so few new entrepreneurs introducing new products or processes implies that many 
new businesses across most economies are 
simply reproducing products or services 
that already exist in the market, using 
familiar technologies and processes. Such an 
approach may be understandable, and less risky, 
but is unlikely to be profitable, and therefore 
sustainable, in the longer term.
Many Latin America & Caribbean economies 
are proving to be very entrepreneurial, as 
evidenced by high proportions of their adults 
starting or running new businesses, and many of 
those new businesses look to be very impactful 
in terms of jobs and innovation. This implies 
some success for business strategies aiming to be 
productive and competitive in this vibrant market.
One area where Latin America & Caribbean 
economies scored less well is in terms of 
the proportion of new businesses that can 
be categorized as export-intensive. Of the 15 
economies with less than one in 20 of their new 
entrepreneurs anticipating 25% or more of their 
revenue coming from customers outside their 
economy, eight were from the Latin America & 
Caribbean region, with only Panama and Puerto 
Rico from the region having higher proportions 
than this. Of the 10 economies with one in five 
or more new entrepreneurs expecting a quarter 
or more of their revenue from abroad, only one 
(Canada) was from outside Europe.
The rise in levels of entrepreneurship, 
and the impacts of those new businesses in 
the Latin America & Caribbean region, may 
stall unless those new entrepreneurs can be 
encouraged, perhaps by export promotion 
programs, to seek customers beyond their 
country’s borders.
Finally, it is encouraging that many new 
entrepreneurs have identified an SDG as a priority, 
with the proportion doing so exceeding one in two 
in 25 of the 33 economies that asked this question 
in the 2023 GEM APS. It is less encouraging that 
the proportion of entrepreneurs doing so shows 
little sign of increasing over time. The United 
Nations, along with enterprise associations, needs 
to do more to promote and disseminate the SDGs.64 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportThe Diversity of 
Entrepreneurs
Stephen Hill and Przemysław Zbierowski
6.1 WHO ARE THE ENTREPRENEURS?
It is easy to think of the new entrepreneur 
as a young man starting a new technology 
business from high-rise shared-space offices, 
backed by venture-capital funding. This 
depiction is, of course, a simplification and, 
while such new entrepreneurs do exist, they 
are likely to be few and far between. However, 
this popular image may also be a disservice, 
if it leads some people to believe that 
entrepreneurship is not accessible to people 
like themselves.
Entrepreneurs can be male or female, 
young or old, a graduate or not, living in 
the city or in the mountains, and could be 
working from home or a backstreet workshop, 
and financed using an overdraft, savings or a 
credit card. This chapter will demonstrate the 
wide diversity of entrepreneurship and how 
businesses come in all shapes and sizes.When looking at entrepreneurial activity 
levels across different groups, differences can be 
expressed in two ways. The first is the absolute 
difference between the groups, or the proportion 
of adults starting or running a new business, or 
running an established business, in one group, 
minus the corresponding proportion in another 
group. The second is the relative difference, or 
the proportion in one divided by the proportion 
in another. Both are important, since each says 
something about those differences. Note that 
variations in entrepreneurial activity between 
economies are typically much greater than 
differences between groups in the same economy. 
So, for example, while there may be differences 
between the proportions of men and women 
starting new businesses in a particular economy, if 
the proportion of men is high, then the proportion 
of women is also likely to be high, and vice versa.
6.2 ARE MALE AND FEMALE ENTREPRENEURSHIP LEVELS 
DIFFERENT?
Figure 6.1 shows the 2023 female and male levels 
of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA). There are just five economies in which 
the proportion of women starting or running 
a new business is the same or higher than the 
proportion of men: four from Level C (China, 
Colombia, Ecuador and Thailand) plus Lithuania 
from Level B, and 39 economies in which more 
men than women were new entrepreneurs. So, on 
this evidence, equality in new entrepreneurship 
is rare, and more likely in lower-income 
economies.
The absolute difference between male and 
female new entrepreneurship levels was highest 
in Jordan and Canada (nine percentage points 
each), and in Brazil (eight points), but there were also 14 economies in which the difference was 
less than two percentage points (five Level C, 
six Level B and three Level A), reinforcing the 
conclusion of the previous paragraph. There 
is a consistent difference in some high-income 
European countries (Norway, Germany, Slovenia, 
Italy, Sweden and France), where the absolute 
difference between male and female is between 
three and four percentage points.
Figure 6.2 shows the female and male levels of 
Established Business Ownership (EBO) in 2023. 
There was just one economy where the proportion 
of women owning established businesses matched 
that of men (Israel), while the absolute gap was 
greatest in India (11%) and the Republic of Korea 
(9%). However, there were also 13 economies 6665 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFIGURE 6.1 Levels of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) by women and by men (% women and % men)
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
FIGURE 6.2 Levels of Established Business Ownership (EBO) by women and by men (% women and % men)
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% women and % men
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf/four.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
China
Iran
India
South Africa
Jordan
Brazil
Mexico
Venezuela
Thailand
Colombia
Guatemala
Ecuador
Poland
Romania
Greece
Spain
Hungary
Lithuania
Cyprus
Israel
Oman
Slovak Republic
Estonia
Croatia
Latvia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Norway
Slovenia
Germany
Italy
Sweden
Republic of Korea
Luxembourg
France
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Netherlands
United States
Qatar
Canada
Saudi ArabiaTEA Female TEA Male
Level B Level C Level A% women and % men
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf
Colombia
Mexico
China
Venezuela
Morocco
Jordan
South Africa
Iran
India
Brazil
Guatemala
Thailand
Ecuador
Oman
Israel
Slovak Republic
Puerto Rico
Croatia
Romania
Panama
Uruguay
Chile
Hungary
Spain
Estonia
Cyprus
Latvia
Poland
Lithuania
Greece
Luxembourg
Germany
Sweden
Qatar
France
Italy
Slovenia
Netherlands
United Kingdom
Switzerland
United States
Canada
Norway
Saudi Arabia
Republic of KoreaEBO Female EBO Male
Level B Level C Level A66 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportin which this absolute gap was two percentage 
points or less: two from Level C, six from Level B 
and five from Level A, suggesting that the absolute 
gap between men and women owning established 
businesses may decrease with income level.
Note that there were six economies in which 
both the difference between (a) the percentage 
of men and women starting new businesses and 
(b) the percentage of men and women owning 
established businesses was less than two percentage points: Chile, Mexico, Poland, Qatar, 
Spain and Switzerland.
It is evident from these charts that the absolute 
entrepreneurial activity gap was typically smaller 
for new than for established businesses, suggesting 
either a recent flourish in women starting new 
businesses or a lower transition rate from new 
to established businesses for women, with the 
latter perhaps more likely. When this happens, 
women and their economies are missing out on 
the employment and stability these women would 
have brought with their established businesses.
Figure 6.3 shows the relative entrepreneurial 
gap for both new and established businesses and 
confirms much of what has been inferred from the 
absolute gaps. The ratio of women to men falls 
sharply as new businesses become established. 
In 29 of the 45 economies, there were at least 
two women starting or running a new business 
for every three men doing the same, but only 16 
economies where the same applied to the ratio of 
women to men owning established businesses. 
The ratio of female to male new entrepreneurship 
exceeded that for Established Business Ownership 
in 34 of 45 economies, including all Level C, 10 
Level B and 11 Level A.
Only two economies had two men starting or 
running new businesses for every woman doing UN SDG # 5 is to achieve gender equality and empower all 
women and girls. At GEM, we are committed to do our part 
to help make this goal a reality.
This chapter has shown that entrepreneurial inequality 
between men and women was much more prevalent in 
those owning established businesses than in those starting 
new ones. More understanding is needed of the obstacles 
that are preventing women from sustaining their new 
businesses.SDG FOCUS . . .
FIGURE 6.3 
The ratio of women 
to men new 
entrepreneurship 
(TEAf/TEAm) 
and the ratio of 
women to men 
owning established 
businesses 
(EBOf/EBOm)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023Ratio of women to men
/zero.tf./zero.tf/zero.tf./two.tf/zero.tf./four.tf/zero.tf./six.tf/zero.tf./eight.tf/one.tf./zero.tf/one.tf./two.tf/one.tf./four.tf
Jordan
Morocco
India
Brazil
South Africa
Guatemala
Iran
Venezuela
Mexico
Ecuador
Thailand
China
Colombia
Cyprus
Hungary
Croatia
Estonia
Oman
Slovak Republic
Romania
Latvia
Israel
Greece
Puerto Rico
Spain
Uruguay
Panama
Poland
Chile
Lithuania
Slovenia
Norway
Republic of Korea
Italy
Canada
Germany
Sweden
France
United Kingdom
Netherlands
Luxembourg
United States
Saudi Arabia
Switzerland
QatarTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A67 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportJulie Gaudin (Switzerland)
Co-founder of Zipback and co-founder of ATAWA
Change through sport, education and 
entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurs are leaders. They must be 
disciplined to persevere.
Julie Gaudin nurtured the necessary 
characteristics as a semi-professional rugby 
player and leveraged these experiences both as a 
student at the School of Management Fribourg, 
Switzerland, and as an entrepreneur. Said Julie:
“My background in sports taught me the 
importance of teamwork, discipline and 
resilience, which have been crucial in 
overcoming challenges, managing setbacks 
and pursuing excellence in every aspect of 
my business endeavours. The perseverance 
and goal-oriented mindset developed in 
sports have seamlessly translated into the 
determination and focus required for an 
entrepreneurial journey.”
While pursuing her education, Gaudin embarked on 
an entrepreneurial odyssey that led her to establish 
not one but two impactful businesses.
Zipback is a venture that offers reusable and 
recycled packaging tailored for online selling. 
Embracing the principles of the circular economy, 
its pouches can be reused up to 100 times. The 
pouches, made from recycled cement bags, are 
crafted by women from rural areas in Cambodia 
through a collaborative partnership with the NGO 
IWA Kep.
The business was launched as part of Gaudin’s 
experience in the School of Management’s Ventures 
in Action” an 18-month entrepreneurial initiative 
through which students transform innovative 
concepts into tangible businesses. It offers practical 
experience and industry insights, preparing students 
for the dynamic world of entrepreneurship.“The experience had a significant impact on 
our education. It was not just a project; it was 
mindset shift, influencing how we approached 
business with a stronger commitment to 
sustainability.”
Julie also co-founded ATAWA, a premium sportswear 
brand that reflects the Swiss ethos of precision, 
quality and inclusivity. Designed in Switzerland 
and crafted in Europe, ATAWA is more than just 
sportswear; it’s a statement of durability and 
accessibility. The brand caters to fitness enthusiasts 
and those embracing an active lifestyle, emphasizing 
not only the longevity of their products but also the 
idea that sportswear should be for everyone.
In conclusion, Julie affirmed:
“Entrepreneurship education empowers 
students with the mindset, skills and resilience 
to thrive in a dynamic environment. It 
cultivates innovation and business acumen, 
shaping a generation capable of creating 
positive impact and fostering sustainable 
change. Entrepreneurship is the ultimate 
sport of the business world – the playing field 
is ever-changing, the competition is fierce, 
and the champions are those who embrace 
challenges.”HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the School of Management Fribourg (HEG-FR), one of our report 
sponsors, for providing this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.68 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportthe same: Cyprus and Jordan. However, there are 
still 12 economies with two or more men owning 
established businesses for every woman doing 
the same, including five each from Level C and 
Level A, and two from Level B. The highest ratios 
were in Jordan and Morocco, each with more than 
three men owning an established business for 
every woman doing the same.
That analysis shows that some economies may 
create a challenging environment for women 
entrepreneurs, as the rate of transition from 
new businesses run by women to established 
ones is particularly low. The first are low-income 
economies where women drop out from entrepreneurial activity at the highest rates. That 
group includes most Latin American and Asian 
countries. Many economies from those regions are 
similar with respect to the transition of women 
entrepreneurship even when they belong to 
middle-income (Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Panama) 
or high-income (Qatar) groups. It may be that low 
transition rates of women entrepreneurship from 
new to established phase is related to culture, 
although this effect can also be identified in 
countries with different cultural backgrounds, 
including Slovenia and Sweden, where less than 
one in three entrepreneurs running an established 
business is a woman.
6.3 ARE YOUNGER PEOPLE MORE LIKELY TO START NEW 
BUSINESSES AND OLDER PEOPLE MORE LIKELY TO OWN 
ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES?
The answer to both of these questions is a 
resounding yes, and it is not hard to work out 
why. Younger people are less likely to have family 
and other responsibilities that require a steady 
income, have yet to develop careers and may have 
less concern about the potential consequences 
of failure, as well as perhaps being more familiar 
with the ways technology and markets are 
developing. Older people may have more access 
to resources, and more experience, but they 
may also have more to lose from starting a new 
business. On the other hand, older people have 
had more time to watch their business become 
established, and to work out what they do best.
Figure 6.4 shows the level of TEA for the 
younger and older age groups (defined here as 
18–34 and 35–64). The level of new entrepreneurial 
activity among the younger age group exceeds that 
of the older age group in 11 Level C economies, 
all Level B economies and 10 Level A economies. 
Over three in 10 of those in the younger age group 
were starting or running new businesses in two 
Level C economies, four Level B and just one 
Level A. Chile, Ecuador and Panama had three 
in 10 of those in the older age group starting new 
businesses. The biggest absolute differences were 
in Canada, Puerto Rico, Latvia and the Slovak 
Republic. However, 14 economies had differences 
of two percentage points: six each from Levels B 
and C and two from Level A.
Finally, there are seven economies in which 
younger people are more than twice as likely 
than older people to be starting new businesses: 
Romania, Lithuania, the Slovak Republic, Latvia, Poland, Germany and Canada. In these countries, 
people over 35 may be a hidden reservoir of 
entrepreneurial potential, and support activities 
aimed at them might boost the overall TEA rate. 
All but one of these had all or part of their country 
in the former Central & Eastern European bloc — 
and young people there appear to be leading the 
ongoing transformation of their economies.
Figure 6.5 shows the proportion of adults in 
each age group owning an established business, 
and paints a very different picture. In every 
economy but two, a higher proportion of older 
people than younger people were owning an 
established business, not too surprising as people 
get older with their businesses. The exceptions 
were the Slovak Republic and Canada, where 
differences were very small. Seven economies 
had differences that exceeded ten percentage 
points: Ecuador, the Republic of Korea, Poland, 
Guatemala, Iran, Thailand and Lithuania. 
Similarly, there were 29 economies in which 
older people were at least twice as likely as 
younger people to be owning an established 
business, including eight economies in which 
older people were four times as likely or more 
than younger people to be owning an established 
business, three of which were from Level A.21 So 
the disparities between age groups in terms of 
Established Business Ownership are far greater 
than for Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity.
21 These were Switzerland, the United Kingdom and 
Norway.69 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFIGURE 6.4 The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (% adults in each age group) for age groups 18–34 and 35–64
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% adults in each age group
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf/four.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
China
South Africa
India
Iran
Jordan
Mexico
Brazil
Thailand
Venezuela
Colombia
Ecuador
Guatemala
Poland
Spain
Greece
Israel
Romania
Oman
Lithuania
Cyprus
Hungary
Estonia
Slovak Republic
Croatia
Latvia
Uruguay
Puerto Rico
Chile
Panama
Norway
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
Slovenia
Italy
Sweden
Germany
Luxembourg
Qatar
France
United Kingdom
Netherlands
United States
Saudi Arabia
CanadaAdults aged /one.tf/eight.tf–/three.tf/four.tf Adults aged /three.tf/five.tf–/six.tf/four.tf 
Level B Level C Level A
FIGURE 6.5 The level of Established Business Ownership (% adults in each age group) for age groups 18–34 and 35–64
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% adults in each age group
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf
Colombia
Venezuela
Mexico
China
Morocco
Iran
South Africa
Jordan
Thailand
Brazil
Guatemala
India
Ecuador
Israel
Croatia
Chile
Spain
Oman
Poland
Hungary
Estonia
Cyprus
Panama
Romania
Puerto Rico
Slovak Republic
Uruguay
Latvia
Lithuania
Greece
Switzerland
France
United Kingdom
Germany
Norway
Qatar
Sweden
Slovenia
United States
Italy
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Canada
Republic of Korea
Saudi ArabiaAdults aged /one.tf/eight.tf–/three.tf/four.tf Adults aged /three.tf/five.tf–/six.tf/four.tf 
Level B Level C Level A70 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportLidia Díaz (Dominican 
Republic)
Cartier Women’s Initiative 2023 Fellow
Empowering women entrepreneurs in 
sustainable food: the Plant Powered story
The GEM Global Report shows that women 
entrepreneurs make up typically between 
one-third and a half of all new entrepreneurs.
Lidia Díaz is one of these women entrepreneurs 
and is making a difference in her country and 
Latin America more broadly. Her company, Plant 
Powered, uses proprietary food technology to 
provide consumers with culturally familiar meat- 
and dairy-free alternatives to animal products.
Worldwide carbon emissions attributable to 
manure increased by 20% between 2010 and 
2018, and livestock production overall generated 
the equivalent of three billion tons of CO2 in 
2018 according to the UN Food and Agriculture 
Organization. Such data suggest that immediate 
climate benefits can be gained by addressing what 
is an individual consumer choice.
Díaz turned to a vegan diet in 2010, both in order to 
minimize her impact on the environment and to 
improve her health. But she struggled to find plant-
based products that appealed to her.
“I wanted a more sustainable diet and there 
weren’t many solutions in my country at the 
time. I found a few options in the Dominican 
Republic but there wasn’t yet a boom in 
sustainable foods like there is now.”
Díaz’s company was born as a result of addressing 
her own needs. She began by re-creating plant-
based versions of the foods she grew up with and 
realized that this could be just what other people 
might be looking for, not only in her country but 
across the region.“If I went to a barbecue, I would bring my 
plant-based burgers and mock meat for 
myself. My friends would eat everything I had 
brought to the party. And they liked it!
When friends began asking if she was selling what 
she had created, the idea for Plant Powered was 
born. With a focus on Latin American cuisine, the 
company offers meat and dairy substitutes and 
ready-to-eat frozen foods, all with a Latin flair.
“We track the impact of substituting a pound 
of animal protein for a pound of plant-based 
protein. At the end of the year, we measure 
how many pounds of protein we sold.
Currently, that translates into significant annual 
savings of water (19.3 million litres [5.1 million 
gallons]), CO2 (26,800 kg [59,000 lb]) and usable 
land (3.4 million m2). Plant Powered aims to be the 
leading brand of Latin plant-based foods in the 
world.
The company’s close involvement with its suppliers 
is making a difference to the farmers’ lives. And the 
company’s inclusive approach is evidenced by the 
Braille on its packaging.HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
71 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report6.4 ARE GRADUATES MORE LIKELY THAN NON-GRADUATES 
TO START A NEW BUSINESS?
Graduates may be more likely than non-graduates 
to start a new business because of their better 
access to resources, including knowledge, 
technical skills and information networks; 
however, since graduate salaries are generally 
higher than those of non-graduates, they may 
also have more to relinquish by starting their own 
business.
Figure 6.6 shows that in 39 of 45 economies, 
graduates were more likely than non-graduates 
to be starting or running a new business, the exceptions being Colombia and Morocco from 
Level C; Oman, Uruguay and Israel from Level B; 
and Canada and Saudi Arabia from Level A. 
However, the absolute gap between the percentage 
of graduates and non-graduates starting new 
businesses tends to be smaller than the gap for 
age groups, being five percentage points or less 
for 33 of the 45 economies, and two points or less 
for 15 of these. Only Romania and Thailand had 
graduates that were twice as likely or more as 
non-graduates to be starting new businesses.In 39 of 45 economies, graduates were more likely to be starting or running a new 
business than non-graduates.
This finding underscores the importance of UN SDG #4: Ensure inclusive and 
equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.SDG FOCUS . . .
FIGURE 6.6 
The level of Total early-
stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) for 
graduates and for 
non-graduates (%)
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/five.tf
Morocco
China
Iran
South Africa
India
Jordan
Brazil
Colombia
Mexico
Venezuela
Thailand
Ecuador
Guatemala
Poland
Romania
Lithuania
Greece
Spain
Israel
Oman
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Hungary
Estonia
Croatia
Latvia
Uruguay
Puerto Rico
Chile
Panama
Norway
Slovenia
Sweden
Germany
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
Luxembourg
Italy
France
United Kingdom
Netherlands
United States
Qatar
Canada
Saudi ArabiaTEA graduates TEA non-graduates
Level B Level C Level A72 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report6.5 DO CHANGES IN INCOME MAKE STARTING A BUSINESS 
MORE LIKELY OR LESS LIKELY?
Chapter 1 summarized the results of a new 
question in the GEM APS, which asks all those 
surveyed whether their household income had 
changed in the past year and, if so, whether it had 
increased or decreased. This section will briefly 
explore whether levels of entrepreneurial activity 
vary according to these changes in household 
income.
Respondents were asked whether their 
household incomes had strongly decreased, 
somewhat decreased, stayed the same, somewhat 
increased or strongly increased. Results were 
shown in Figure 1.2. For each category, a level 
of TEA can be calculated — but with care: TEA 
is a proportion, often small, and estimating a 
small proportion of a small proportion can lead 
to misleading results, or at best to estimates with 
wide confidence intervals which make inferences 
difficult. To reduce this problem, all results for 
any category that was selected by less than 
10% of the sample were deleted. Unfortunately, 
only one economy (France) had 10% or more 
of respondents reporting that their household income had strongly increased, while in 22 
economies 10% or more of respondents reported 
that their household income had strongly 
decreased (10 from Level B, 12 from Level C and 
none from Level A, reinforcing the conclusion 
that lower-income economies had more people 
reporting household income falls.
Figure 6.7 shows the level of TEA for each 
category where at least 10% of respondents had 
selected that category.22 The first column for each 
economy is the level of TEA for those responding 
that their income had “strongly decreased”, the 
second is TEA for those responding “somewhat 
decreased” and the third column TEA for 
“somewhat increased”, but in each case only if 
10% or more of respondents chose that category.
One way to interpret Figure 6.7 is to 
compare the level of TEA in each category to 
that economy’s overall level of TEA, already FIGURE 6.7 
The level of Total early-
stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) (%) 
for those reporting 
that their household 
income had 
“strongly decreased”, 
“somewhat 
decreased” or 
“somewhat 
increased” in 2023, 
where that category 
was at least 10% 
of responses
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/five.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/five.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/five.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/five.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/five.tf
Ecuador
Guatemala
Colombia
Thailand
Venezuela
Brazil
Mexico
Jordan
India
Iran
South Africa
China
Morocco
Chile
Panama
Uruguay
Puerto Rico
Croatia
Estonia
Latvia
Oman
Israel
Cyprus
Spain
Slovak Republic
Hungary
Greece
Lithuania
Romania
Poland
Canada
Republic of Korea
Netherlands
Saudi Arabia
United States
Qatar
United Kingdom
Switzerland
France
Luxembourg
Germany
Sweden
Italy
Norway
SloveniaStrongly decreased Somewhat decreased Somewhat increased
Level B Level C Level A22 Except for the category “No substantial change”, 
chosen by two in five adults or more in six Level C, 
12 Level B and 12 Level A economies.73 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportillustrated in Figure 4.1 in Chapter 4. In 18 of 
the 22 economies with sufficient responses in 
the category “strongly decrease”, the level of 
TEA for that category was lower than for the 
economy overall. Some of the largest differences 
were in the Slovak Republic, where TEA for the 
income “strongly decreased” category was 5.3%, 
compared to 10.8% for the economy overall, 
and in Thailand, where TEA for the “strongly 
decreased” category was 15.8%, compared to 
23.6% for Thailand overall. Overall, an individual 
reporting that their household income had fallen 
strongly in 2023 was less likely to start a new 
business.
Comparing TEA for the category “somewhat 
decreased” to that economy’s average TEA 
reveals little difference. TEA is higher in this 
category than the average in 27 economies 
but lower in 17 others. Comparing TEA for the category “somewhat increased” to the economy’s 
average is much more revealing. There are 28 
economies in which TEA is higher than the 
average, and just eight in which TEA is lower 
than the average for that economy. Among the 
largest differences were China (TEA for those 
reporting that income had somewhat increased of 
14.6%, compared to 6.8% overall), Oman (21.5% 
compared to 10.6%), Romania (11.7% compared 
to 5.9%) and the Republic of Korea (17 .5% 
compared to 10.2%).
So if your income was reported as “somewhat 
increased” in 2023, you were more likely to be 
starting a new business, and sometimes much 
more likely. Of course, the direction of causation 
could be either way: you could be starting a new 
business because your income had increased, or 
your income could have increased because you 
were starting a new business.
6.6 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS 
CHAPTER?
This chapter has shown that entrepreneurial 
inequality between men and women was 
much more prevalent in those owning 
established businesses than in those starting 
new ones, implying that fewer women than 
men are successfully transitioning new into 
established businesses. While the evidence of 
greater equality in starting new businesses is 
welcome, and can contribute to SDG 5, more 
understanding is needed of the obstacles that 
are preventing women from sustaining their 
new businesses.
In most of the 45 economies, younger people 
are much more likely than older people to be 
starting new businesses, including six economies 
in which those young people were at least twice 
as likely. As with the comparison between men and women, the situation was very different with 
established businesses, with only two of the 45 
economies having at least the same proportion of 
younger people owning established businesses 
as older people. Again, careful consideration is 
needed of the obstacles that are constraining 
new businesses started by younger people 
from becoming established.
Finally, this chapter looked at the association 
between changes in household income and the 
likelihood of starting a new business. If your 
household income had strongly decreased in 
2023, you were less likely to be starting a new 
business compared to that economy’s average, 
whereas if your household income had somewhat 
increased, you were more likely to be starting a 
new business.74 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportNavigating the 
Entrepreneurial Landscape
Stephen Hill and Ehud Menipaz
7.1 WHY DOES THIS MATTER?
In this Global Report, Chapter 3 looked at the 
public attitudes and perceptions that form 
the social foundations of entrepreneurial 
activity. This chapter is much more targeted: 
it will look at the attitudes and perceptions of 
entrepreneurs, in order to better understand 
the landscape in which businesses are created 
and grow. Is it more difficult to start a new 
business than a year ago? And are the growth 
expectations of entrepreneurs lower than a year 
ago? Chapter 1 looked at the global context, and 
noted that, despite the ongoing war in Ukraine, 
the overall situation may be more stable, and 
more conducive to growth, although evidence 
on changes in household income challenges that 
view, especially in less prosperous economies 
(including Ukraine).
One feature of recent Global Reports has been 
the ability of entrepreneurs to find opportunity in 
adversity. This chapter will look at whether those 
starting new businesses consider that the COVID 
pandemic led to new opportunities they wish to 
pursue, while Established Business Owners are 
asked a more direct question: Has the pandemic led to new opportunities that you are pursuing? 
There is no doubt that the pandemic has changed 
the way that goods and services are bought and 
sold, with the shift from bricks-and-mortar to 
online. Those starting or running new businesses, 
or owning established businesses, are asked if 
they expect to use more digital technologies to 
sell their products or services. A negative answer 
may simply indicate that their business is already 
invested in digital technologies.
Last year the Global Report looked at whether 
those starting new businesses, or owning 
established ones, took environmental and 
social implications into consideration in their 
long-term decisions. This chapter will address 
the same issues more directly, by looking at 
whether their businesses had taken any steps, 
either to minimize their environmental impacts 
or to maximize their social impacts. Finally, this 
chapter will look at entrepreneurial awareness 
of the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), and, because this question has now 
been asked for three years in a row, will consider 
changes in this awareness.
7.2 IS IT GETTING HARDER TO START A NEW BUSINESS?
Those starting or running a new business were 
asked whether starting a business is more difficult 
compared to a year ago. Figure 7 .1 summarizes 
the responses, in terms of the percentage of Total 
early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) who 
considered it to be either somewhat more difficult, 
or much more difficult, to start a business than 
a year ago. This proportion varied from just four 
in 10 to eight in 10 in Level C, from three in 10 to 
seven in 10 in Level B and from just one in 10to 
six in 10 in Level A. Both the level and the range 
declined as the income group increased.More than a half of new entrepreneurs 
considered it more difficult in six 
Level C economies, four Level B and just three 
Level A. Note that the obverse is also true: if a 
new entrepreneur didn’t consider it to be more 
difficult than a year ago, then it was viewed 
either as just as difficult or less difficult than a 
year ago. Figure 7 .1 implies that the proportion 
starting new businesses considering it as 
difficult, or less difficult, ranged from one in five 
in Level C (Iran) to four in five in Level A (Saudi 
Arabia).7775 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFIGURE 7.1 The percentage of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) who think starting a business is more difficult compared 
to one year ago
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% of TEA
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf
Mexico
South Africa
Brazil
India
Thailand
Colombia
Venezuela
Morocco
Guatemala
China
Jordan
Ecuador
Iran
Latvia
Poland
Croatia
Estonia
Oman
Greece
Romania
Lithuania
Uruguay
Slovak Republic
Spain
Hungary
Puerto Rico
Cyprus
Panama
Israel
Chile
Saudi Arabia
Sweden
Slovenia
Switzerland
Netherlands
France
Qatar
Italy
United States
Germany
Canada
Norway
United Kingdom
Republic of Korea
Luxembourg
Level B Level C Level A
FIGURE 7.2 The percentage of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) whose business growth expectations are lower compared 
to one year ago
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% of TEA
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf
Thailand
Colombia
Guatemala
Mexico
South Africa
Brazil
Venezuela
India
Ecuador
Morocco
China
Jordan
Iran
Slovak Republic
Poland
Lithuania
Puerto Rico
Latvia
Cyprus
Croatia
Uruguay
Romania
Hungary
Israel
Chile
Panama
Oman
Greece
Spain
Estonia
Saudi Arabia
Italy
France
Norway
Netherlands
Slovenia
United States
Canada
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Qatar
Germany
Luxembourg
Republic of Korea
Level B Level C Level A76 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportIva Gumnishka (Bulgaria)
Cartier Women’s Initiative 2023 Fellow
An entrepreneur’s journey in addressing 
UN Sustainable Development Goals
The success of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) is crucial for the global 
economy and society, which is why we ask our 
entrepreneurs if they are aware of them.
Iva Gumnishka certainly is. Her company Humans 
in the Loop is actively addressing Goal #1 (No 
Poverty), Goal #8 (Decent Work and Economic 
Growth) and Goal #10 (Reduced Inequalities).
In 2017, Iva was studying human rights in the 
United States when she learned about a social 
entrepreneur providing jobs for local youth. 
She began wondering if she could use social 
entrepreneurship to support refugees in her 
home country. Said Gumnishka:
“That entrepreneur was super inspiring for me. 
After graduating, I came back and started 
working as a volunteer in a refugee camp here 
in Bulgaria.”
Soon after, she founded Humans in the Loop.
“We started with classes to help people get 
jobs in places like call centres. Many are 
unable to get such jobs because they don’t 
have the skills. The goal was to find an easy 
job that anyone can do so that they can start 
earning money immediately.”
A universal challenge across the artificial intelligence 
industry is that AI systems are only as good as the 
data used to train them. Without the right human 
oversight, systems can learn a distorted version of the 
world, and the resulting inaccuracies can harm the 
people they are intended to serve.
“For these systems to learn to recognize 
objects and images, you need to show them 
examples that are generated by humans.”The idea of making a connection between this and 
the refugee crisis came from the company’s first 
client and a friend in the AI field. After a successful 
pilot, the company began training refugees to 
become the “humans in the loop”, monitoring the AI 
data sets used to build algorithms. Humans in the 
Loop has since evolved into a hybrid organization 
which includes the original job-providing entity 
and a foundation that provides training and career 
counselling. Local teams train and support the 
company’s workforce.
“This is a much better practice compared 
to crowdsourcing marketplaces [which are 
typical for the industry] as it can guarantee 
the quality and consistency of data. To train AI 
systems, you need to test and verify them with 
human supervision and monitoring. This is the 
opportunity that we’re using to generate work 
for people who are affected by conflict.”HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
77 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportA related question is whether, compared to 
one year ago, the new entrepreneur expected 
business growth to be lower. Figure 7 .2 shows 
that the proportion of those starting or running 
a new business whose expectations for business 
growth were somewhat lower, or much lower, 
than a year ago, ranged from less than one in 
10 (Thailand) to more than seven in 10 (Iran) in Level C; from just over one in 10 (Slovak Republic) 
to four in 10 (Estonia) in Level B; and from one 
in 10 (Saudi Arabia) to six in 10 (Republic of 
Korea) in Level A. So, except for the Republic of 
Korea, there were lower growth expectations in 
relatively few Level B and A economies and much 
more variability in those growth expectations in 
Level C.
7.3 DID THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC CREATE NEW 
OPPORTUNITIES?
The GEM Adult Population Survey (APS) asked 
those starting or running a new business 
whether the COVID pandemic had provided 
new opportunities that they wish to pursue. 
Established Business Owners were asked a 
slightly different question: whether the pandemic 
had led to new opportunities that are currently 
being pursued. It may be easier to wish to pursue 
opportunities than to actually do so.
Results from both questions are illustrated 
side by side in Figure 7 .3. Starting with new 
entrepreneurs, there were 12 economies with one 
in two or more agreeing that the pandemic has 
led to new opportunities that they wish to pursue (five from Level C, three from Level B and four 
from Level A), compared to nine in which less 
than one in three agreed (three from Level C, four 
from Level B and two from Level A). The highest 
levels of agreement were in India, Brazil and 
Chile, and the lowest, by far, in the Republic of 
Korea and in Hungary.
The picture for Established Business Owners 
currently pursuing pandemic opportunities was 
surprisingly similar, if scaled a little lower. There 
were just eight economies in which one in two or 
more were pursuing pandemic opportunities, and 
23 were less than one in three was doing the same. 
The highest levels were again in India and Saudi FIGURE 7.3 
The percentage of 
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) 
who agree that 
the pandemic 
has led to new 
opportunities they 
wish to pursue and 
the percentage of 
Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
who are pursuing 
such opportunities
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA/EBO
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
Iran
Jordan
Colombia
Ecuador
China
South Africa
Guatemala
Mexico
Thailand
Venezuela
Brazil
India
Hungary
Slovak Republic
Estonia
Greece
Croatia
Poland
Cyprus
Oman
Spain
Romania
Uruguay
Latvia
Lithuania
Israel
Panama
Puerto Rico
Chile
Republic of Korea
Norway
Switzerland
Sweden
Italy
France
Netherlands
Slovenia
Qatar
Germany
Luxembourg
United States
United Kingdom
Canada
Saudi ArabiaTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A78 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportArabia, and the lowest in the Republic of Korea 
and Hungary.
There are 40 economies in which this question 
was asked in both 2022 and 2023. Given that the 
COVID pandemic had fallen from the headlines, 
the reasonable expectation may have been that 
the proportion pursuing, or wishing to pursue, 
pandemic-led opportunities had declined. The 
experience was much less clear-cut. In 21 of 
those 40 economies, the proportion of new 
entrepreneurs wishing to pursue opportunities 
due to the pandemic had increased, and in 19 it 
had fallen. This looks like minor change, but in 
many of these economies the differences were 
large. For example, in 2022, just 9% of new 
entrepreneurs in the Slovak Republic had agreed 
the pandemic had led to new opportunities they 
wished to pursue; by 2023, this was 25%. In nearby Slovenia, the increase was from 9% to 
43%, and in distant Saudi Arabia from 15% to 
64%. There were similar large falls: in Iran from 
62% to 26%, in the Republic of Korea from 50% to 
6%, and in China from 84% to 39%.
The pattern for Established Business Owners 
was closer to expectations. In 26 of the 40 
economies, the proportion of Established Business 
Owners agreeing they were currently pursuing 
pandemic-led opportunities decreased from 2022 
and increased in just 14 economies. Once more, 
some of the shifts were large. In nine economies 
that proportion at least halved,23 while in another 
five economies that proportion at least doubled.24 
So, overall, fewer Established Business Owners 
were pursuing pandemic-led opportunities in 
2023 than in 2022, but there was minor change in 
relation to new entrepreneurs.
7.4 ARE ENTREPRENEURS READY FOR THE FUTURE?
Most people starting or running new businesses, 
or owning established businesses, are likely to 
consider themselves ready to face the future. 
Indeed, the very act of starting a business is a 
statement of faith in the future.
One way to assess that readiness is to look at 
expectations in a turbulent environment. A key 
feature of the recent past has been the rapid rise 
in the use of digital technologies to sell products 
and services. In the 2023 GEM APS, both new and 
established entrepreneurs were asked whether, in 
the next six months, they expected their business 
to use more digital technologies to sell their 
products. The proportions responding yes, for 
both new and established businesses, are shown 
in Figure 7 .4.
There was wide variation, both for those 
starting new businesses and for those owning 
established businesses. For new entrepreneurs, 
the proportion ranged from three in 10 (China) 
to nine in 10 (Brazil) in Level C, from two in 
10 (Lithuania) to eight in 10 (Puerto Rico) in 
Level B, and from one in 10 (Republic of Korea) 
to eight in 10 (Saudi Arabia) in Level A. Results 
for Established Business Owners were broadly 
similar. In group C, two in ten were expecting 
to use more digital technology to sell in Iran 
compared to eight in ten in Brazil. Group B ranged 
from one in 10 in Lithuania to seven in 10 in 
Brazil. For group A, there was one in 10 from the 
Republic of Korea and eight in 10 in Saudi Arabia. If digital technology was first adopted by new 
businesses in high-income economies, there is 
some evidence that low-income economies are 
fast catching up.25
Lithuania and the Republic of Korea had few 
(one in five or less) new or established businesses 
expecting to use more digital technologies in the 
next six months to sell their products, whereas 
Brazil, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia each had 
three in four or more. This may simply mean that 
levels in the Republic of Korea and Lithuania are 
high already. Another interesting feature of Figure 
7 .4 is that, in 41 of 45 economies, the proportion 
of new entrepreneurs expecting to use more 
digital technologies exceeded the corresponding 
proportion of Established Business Owners in that 
economy. The exceptions were all in Asia (China, 
Oman, Saudi Arabia and the Korean Republic). 
This may reflect the fact that, as seen in Chapter 6, 
younger people are more likely to be starting new 
businesses than owning established ones, as are 
graduates.
23 Morocco, Iran, China, Hungary, Greece, Spain, 
Republic of Korea, United States and United Kingdom.
24 South Africa, Slovak Republic, Venezuela, Slovenia 
and Saudi Arabia.
25 Tolba, A., Karadeniz, E., Boutaleb, F., Bouhaddioui, 
C., Menipaz, E., Pereira, F., Bueno, Y., Alsaeed, M., & 
Schøtt, T., “Exports during the pandemic: Enhanced 
by digitalization”, Small Enterprise Research, 29(3): 
308–27 .79 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report7.5 ARE ENTREPRENEURS MINIMIZING THEIR 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, OR MAXIMIZING THEIR SOCIAL 
IMPACTS?
Last year’s Global Report looked at whether 
new and established entrepreneurs took 
environmental and social implications into 
account when making decisions about the future 
of their businesses. A majority of both those 
starting or running new businesses, and those 
running established businesses, agreed that they 
did, although that majority declined slightly as 
income group increased.
In this report, the focus shifts slightly to 
two related questions about entrepreneurial 
behaviour, asking both new and established 
entrepreneurs whether they had taken 
any steps in the past year to minimize the 
environmental impacts of their business, 
such as energy-saving measures or the use of 
more environmentally friendly materials, or to 
maximize the social impacts of that business, 
such as creating new jobs for young people or 
ensuring fair workplace conditions and wages 
in their suppliers. Results are shown in Figures 
7 .5 and 7 .6.Figure 7 .5 shows that, in the past year, at least 
one in two new entrepreneurs had taken steps to 
minimize environmental impacts in 27 of the 45 
economies (including six in Level C, 13 in Level B 
and eight in Level A). Established Business Owners 
were even more emphatic, with at least one in two 
taking steps to minimize environmental impact 
in 36 of the 45 economies (eight in Level C, and 
14 in each of B and A, respectively). Even those 
economies with fewer entrepreneurs taking steps 
to minimize environmental impact usually had 
more than two in five: just five economies had less 
than two in five new entrepreneurs, falling to just 
four economies for Established Business Owners. 
Interestingly, Established Businesses Owners were 
more likely than new entrepreneurs to have taken 
steps to minimize environmental impact in the 
past year.26
There is clear agreement among both new 
and established entrepreneurs that steps had FIGURE 7.4 
The percentage of 
new and established 
business owners 
expecting to 
use more digital 
technologies to 
sell their products 
or services in the 
next six months 
(Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity [TEA] and 
Established Business 
Ownership [EBO])
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA/EBO
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
China
India
Jordan
Iran
Morocco
Ecuador
Colombia
South Africa
Thailand
Mexico
Guatemala
Venezuela
Brazil
Lithuania
Estonia
Romania
Slovak Republic
Hungary
Poland
Greece
Spain
Cyprus
Latvia
Croatia
Israel
Oman
Uruguay
Chile
Panama
Puerto Rico
Republic of Korea
Netherlands
Switzerland
France
Sweden
Germany
United States
Slovenia
Norway
Italy
Canada
Luxembourg
United Kingdom
Qatar
Saudi ArabiaTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A
26 With % EBO > % TEA in 37 of 45 economies.80 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportbeen taken to minimize environmental impacts. 
Exceptions included Morocco and Iran (for both 
TEA and EBO), Lithuania and France (TEA), and 
the United States (EBO).Figure 7 .6 relates to entrepreneurs having 
taken steps to maximize social impacts, again 
with regard to both new entrepreneurs and 
Established Business Owners. This time the 
We asked both new and established entrepreneurs 
whether they had taken any steps in the past year to:
1. Minimize the environmental impacts of their 
business (such as energy-saving measures 
or the use of more environmentally friendly 
materials) or
2. Maximize the social impacts of that business, 
such as creating new jobs for young people or 
ensuring fair workplace conditions and wages 
in their suppliers.There is clear agreement, among both new and 
established entrepreneurs, that steps were taken 
to minimize environmental impacts. Established 
Business Owners were a bit more likely than new 
entrepreneurs to have taken steps to maximize the 
social impact of their business.
This potentially correlates to progress on UN SDGs 
#6, Clean Water and Sanitation; #7, Affordable 
and Clean Energy; #13, Climate Action; and 14, Life 
Below Water; among others.SDG FOCUS . . .
FIGURE 7.5 The share of new and established business owners who have taken steps in the past year to minimize the environmental 
impact of their business (% Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA] and % Established Business Ownership [EBO])
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% of TEA/EBO
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
India
Iran
Colombia
Jordan
Ecuador
Venezuela
South Africa
Mexico
Guatemala
Thailand
China
Brazil
Lithuania
Israel
Estonia
Latvia
Spain
Oman
Poland
Uruguay
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Hungary
Romania
Puerto Rico
Chile
Greece
Croatia
Panama
France
Norway
Slovenia
Netherlands
Qatar
United Kingdom
Germany
Sweden
Republic of Korea
United States
Italy
Canada
Switzerland
Luxembourg
Saudi ArabiaTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A81 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportpicture is more mixed, still with widespread 
agreement but less emphatic. At least one in two 
or more new entrepreneurs had taken steps to 
maximize the social impact of their business in 15 
of the 45 economies (five Level C, six Level B and 
four Level A). The same was true of Established 
Business Owners in 22 of the 45 economies, so 
Established Business Owners were a bit more 
likely than new entrepreneurs to have taken steps 
to maximize the social impact of their business.
Relatively few economies had less than one in 
three of their businesses taking steps to minimize 
their environmental impact (four for new 
businesses and none for established). In relation 
to entrepreneurs taking steps to maximize their 
social impacts, this number of economies rises to 
seven for new businesses and 12 for established ones. Estonia, France and Norway had the lowest 
proportions of new entrepreneurs agreeing, while 
Sweden and Estonia had the lowest proportions of 
Established Business Owners in agreement.
Taking steps in the past year to minimize 
environmental impacts or to maximize social 
impacts was more common among established 
entrepreneurs than new ones, possibly because 
new entrepreneurs are more focused on survival. 
More new or established entrepreneurs were 
taking steps to minimize environmental impact 
than to maximize social impact, possibly because 
the latter may be more difficult, or perhaps 
revealing differences in preferences. It is clear that 
many new and established entrepreneurs are not 
just thinking about their social and environmental 
impacts but are doing something in response.
7.6 ARE ENTREPRENEURS AWARE OF THE UNITED NATIONS 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG S)?
Chapter 1 briefly outlined the UN SDGs and 
suggested that they were becoming more 
influential in the business environment, 
including among entrepreneurs. The previous section showed that a majority of both new and 
established entrepreneurs are taking steps to 
change their social and environmental impacts: 
doing so would be in support of the SDGs FIGURE 7.6 
The share of new 
and established 
business owners 
who have taken 
steps in the past 
year to maximize 
the social impact 
of their business 
(% Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity [TEA] and % 
Established Business 
Ownership [EBO])
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA/EBO
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
India
Iran
Colombia
Morocco
Ecuador
Jordan
Venezuela
Guatemala
Mexico
South Africa
Thailand
China
Brazil
Estonia
Latvia
Lithuania
Slovak Republic
Spain
Hungary
Cyprus
Israel
Oman
Uruguay
Greece
Poland
Chile
Romania
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Panama
France
Norway
Republic of Korea
Slovenia
United Kingdom
Sweden
Netherlands
United States
Italy
Qatar
Switzerland
Germany
Luxembourg
Canada
Saudi ArabiaTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A82 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportYvette Ishimwe (Rwanda)
Cartier Women’s Initiative 2023 Fellow
Empowering communities with clean 
water: an entrepreneur addressing UN 
SDG Goal #6
Yvette Ishimwe is one of many entrepreneurs who 
are addressing society’s big challenges, like those 
encapsulated in the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
SDG Goal #6 is about clean water and sanitation: 
a challenging area. For example, in Sub-Saharan 
Africa, 320 million people lack access to this basic 
right; only 57% of the Rwandan population can find 
potable water within 30 minutes of home, according 
to UNICEF; and children lose 443 million school days 
each year because of water-related illnesses.
Yvette experienced this problem first-hand when 
her family relocated from Rwanda’s capital city Kigali 
to a rural village.
“There was no water for home use or even 
for drinking. Water was expensive and it was 
difficult to get clean water.”
She found that her family could hire a truck to pump 
water from a nearby lake to their home, and purify it 
with a $400 kit. She explains:
“My mom gave me the money. They installed 
it on our water tank. Then the neighbours 
started to come. After three days, our 
compound was full of people coming in to 
fetch water from our home.”
While at university she was awarded $10,000 
through a business competition to implement the 
solution she’d found for her family on a wider scale. 
The village could now build a solar-powered plant to 
pump water from a natural spring.
This led to Ishimwe launching Iriba Water Group, 
a social enterprise that tackles the problem of 
drinking water scarcity in Rwanda and other low-income African countries. The company’s Tap & 
Drink systems, installed in public places like markets, 
parking lots and schools, connect to and purify 
municipal tap water. The public can access water 
with a “water ATM card” and Iriba tracks usage with 
a software management system. Franchisees run 
the systems, complementing the company’s core 
mission by providing local jobs.
Since 2017, the company’s 74 Tap & Drink systems 
have brought safe, affordable water to over 300,000 
people in Rwanda and eastern Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, and it is now replicating the model 
in Central African Republic. Along the way, it has 
created 68 jobs and prevents 62 metric tons of CO2 
emissions every month. In the next five years, the 
company plans to reach 2,750,000 people with 
affordable safe drinking water, create 685 jobs, and 
reduce emissions by a million metric tons monthly.
These numbers represent real human impact. 
Incidences of water-related illnesses such as typhoid 
and diarrhoea have fallen dramatically in schools, 
directly translating to fewer school days missed. 
Ishimwe concluded:
“No one should have to die or get sick for a 
lack of something so basic and so achievable 
as safe water. I believe that water is life, and 
life is a human right. The need is huge and 
abundant. We’re just getting started.”HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
83 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report(especially SDGs 9, 11 and 12).27 But the question 
must still be asked: are entrepreneurs aware of the 
SDGs and, if so, is this awareness changing over 
time? Is there evidence to support the notion that 
the SDGs are becoming more influential in the 
entrepreneurial world?
The GEM APS asks both new and established 
entrepreneurs if they are aware of the UN SDGs. 
This is an optional question and not asked by all 
National Teams. For those that did, results for 
2023 are shown in Figure 7 .7 .
Awareness of the SDGs was patchy at best, 
reaching one in two or more new entrepreneurs 
in Norway, and one in two Established Business 
Owners in Poland, Norway and China. Across 
the 33 economies where this question was asked 
in 2023, less than one in five new entrepreneurs 
were aware of the SDGs in 10 economies (all 
income levels), compared to less than one in five 
Established Business Owners in 12 economies. The 
highest levels of awareness were in Norway (TEA 59%, EBO 55%), Poland (TEA 47%, EBO 67%) and 
in China (TEA 37%, EBO 53%). The chart shows 
awareness of the SDGs typically increasing with 
income, and lowest in Level C Morocco, Ecuador 
and Jordan.
So there is little evidence that awareness of the 
SDGs is widespread among entrepreneurs. But are 
there signs that this awareness is increasing?
There are just 20 economies where this 
question was asked in each of the last three 
years. These include seven economies in which 
the proportion of new entrepreneurs who 
were aware of the SDGs increased each year.28 
However, there were also eight economies in 
which awareness was lower in 2023 than in 
2021.29 Finally, there are 11 economies in which 
the level of awareness among new entrepreneurs 
either fell and then increased or increased and 
then fell. A very mixed picture indeed, and no 
support for the notion that entrepreneurial 
awareness of SDGs is increasing.FIGURE 7.7 
Are you aware 
of the United 
Nations Sustainable 
Development 
Goals (SDGs)? 
(% Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
Activity [TEA] and % 
Established Business 
Ownership [EBO])
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of TEA/EBO
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
Ecuador
Jordan
India
Colombia
Mexico
South Africa
China
Thailand
Cyprus
Uruguay
Romania
Estonia
Chile
Slovak Republic
Israel
Croatia
Hungary
Greece
Latvia
Lithuania
Spain
Poland
Qatar
Slovenia
Republic of Korea
Canada
Switzerland
France
Netherlands
Luxembourg
Italy
NorwayTotal early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) Established Business Ownership (EBO) 
Level B Level C Level A
27 The full list of the UN SDGs can be found in Figure 1.1 
on p. 26.28 Chile, Cyprus, Hungary, Latvia, Poland and Spain.
29 Colombia, India, Morocco, Croatia, Romania and 
Uruguay.84 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report7.7 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS 
CHAPTER?
This chapter has looked at the expectations 
and perceptions of new and established 
entrepreneurs. The responses help us navigate 
the entrepreneurial landscape in which the 
decision to start a business takes place, as well 
as the propensity of entrepreneurs to grasp 
opportunities that this landscape provides. It also 
shows the way that entrepreneurial behaviour 
reflects changing social values, especially in 
relation to the environmental and social impact of 
their businesses.
Responses to the question of whether those 
starting new businesses agreed that it was harder 
to do so than a year earlier were highly varied, 
with some reduction in agreement as income 
groups rose. Few entrepreneurs in Levels A and B 
agreed that their growth expectations were lower 
than a year earlier. Responses in Level C were 
more variable.
The proportion of new entrepreneurs agreeing 
that the COVID pandemic had led to new 
opportunities they wish to pursue remained high, 
while the proportion of Established Business 
Owners pursuing such opportunities was a little 
lower but still widespread. The highest levels 
were in India and Brazil, with the lowest levels 
in Hungary and the Republic of Korea. This may 
reflect the highly variable trajectory of the virus 
in different economies. More research is needed 
to relate entrepreneurial perceptions of 
pandemic opportunities to health conditions 
in individual economies.
There was wide variation in the proportions 
of new and established entrepreneurs expecting to use more digital technologies to sell their 
products or services in the next six months, 
although proportions were slightly higher among 
lower-income economies, and for established 
compared to new entrepreneurs, perhaps 
because, as Chapter 6 showed, new entrepreneurs 
tended to be younger than established ones. 
These proportions were typically higher in the 
Latin America & Caribbean region than in Europe, 
and lowest of all in the Republic of Korea and 
in Lithuania, possibly because digitalization 
levels were already high there. Relatively few 
Established Business Owners were expecting 
to use more digital technologies in Level B and 
A economies. Greater awareness of market 
potential may be needed if these established 
businesses are not to lose market share to 
those utilizing new ways of selling.
More optimistically, a majority of new and 
established businesses had taken steps to 
minimize their environmental impacts over the 
past year. Proportions of entrepreneurs taking 
steps to maximize their social impacts were a 
little lower, perhaps because maximizing social 
impacts can be more difficult. However, few new 
or established entrepreneurs could claim to be 
doing so in pursuit of the UN SDGs, because few 
appear to be aware of those goals. Of course, 
acting to minimize environmental impact or to 
maximize social impact is more important than 
being aware of the SDGs. Nevertheless, those 
responsible for promoting the SDGs may wish 
to reflect on the reasons awareness remains 
low among many entrepreneurs.85 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportWhy Start (or Stop) 
a Business?
Stephen Hill and Fatima Boutaleb
8.1 INTRODUCTION: THE SIGNIFICANCE OF BUSINESSES 
COMING AND GOING
The reasons for starting a business are inevitably 
personal, reflecting the circumstances, 
character and motivation of the individual 
concerned. The decision can be influenced 
by the desire for autonomy, the prospect of 
building a personal fortune, the drive to make 
the world a better place, sometimes by finding 
solutions to specific social or environmental 
concerns, or simply to generate an income in 
the absence of alternatives. This motivation 
matters, because it can influence the way the 
new business behaves, as well as its prospects 
for growth and sustainability. The nature of 
individual motivation may determine goals 
and aspirations for the firm, which in turn may 
influence economic outcomes. In either case, 
it is important for policymakers to understand 
entrepreneurial motivations so they can activate 
the factors within their sphere of influence.It is important for an economy to have a 
steady flow of new businesses that evolve 
into established businesses. Important too 
is the ability to exit a business. An exit frees 
up resources from something that may not be 
generating a return, and redirects these resources 
towards new activities that can potentially raise 
productivity and living standards.
There are many reasons for exiting a business, 
and while the lack of profitability is certainly 
an important one, there are other, more positive 
reasons, such as planned retirement or to pursue 
more attractive alternatives, such as a salaried 
job. Furthermore, an individual exiting the 
business they created does not necessarily mean 
that that business does not continue: this chapter 
will show that, in many economies, a significant 
proportion of businesses continue their activities 
after the founder has left.
8.2 WHY START A BUSINESS?
In 2019, GEM updated its approach to motivation, 
surveying new business founders on specific 
reasons for starting a business. These motivations 
include making a difference, achieving 
substantial wealth, continuing a family tradition, 
and earning a living due to job scarcity.
The desire for autonomy was not included, 
since pre-testing showed that almost everyone 
agreed with this motivation. Those starting or 
running a new business select from a five-point 
scale (strongly agree, somewhat agree, neither 
agree nor disagree, somewhat disagree and 
strongly disagree), and can choose one or more 
of these motivations (and many do choose more 
than one). The results for 2023 are set out in 
Figures 8.1 and 8.2.There is wide variation in the proportion of 
adults starting or running a new business who 
agree30 with the motivation “to make a difference 
in the world” (Figure 8.1), from just one in 25 new 
entrepreneurs in the Republic of Korea (by far 
the lowest), to more than four out of five in India. 
This wide variation was evident across all income 
groups. Less than two in five new entrepreneurs 
agree in four Level C, nine in Level B and four 
Level A economies, while more than three in 
five agree in six Level C, three Level B and three 
Level A economies.
30 “Agree” includes those who selected “strongly agree” 
or “somewhat agree”.8886 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportFIGURE 8.1 Agreement with motivations “to make a difference in the world” and “to build great wealth or very high income” (% Total 
early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA])
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
FIGURE 8.2 Agreement with motivations “to continue a family tradition” and “to earn a living because jobs are scarce” (% Total 
early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity [TEA])
Source: GEM Adult Population Survey 2023
% of TEA
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
China
Morocco
Jordan
Iran
Ecuador
Colombia
Thailand
South Africa
Mexico
Venezuela
Brazil
Guatemala
India
Poland
Greece
Estonia
Croatia
Slovak Republic
Spain
Israel
Cyprus
Uruguay
Oman
Lithuania
Latvia
Hungary
Chile
Romania
Panama
Puerto Rico
Republic of Korea
France
Italy
Norway
Sweden
Netherlands
Qatar
Germany
Luxembourg
Switzerland
Slovenia
United Kingdom
Canada
United States
Saudi Arabia“To make a difference in the world” “To build great wealth or very high income”
Level B Level C Level A% of TEA
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/zero.tf
Iran
Morocco
Jordan
China
Colombia
Brazil
Ecuador
South Africa
Guatemala
Venezuela
Mexico
Thailand
India
Poland
Estonia
Spain
Lithuania
Israel
Slovak Republic
Croatia
Cyprus
Chile
Latvia
Hungary
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Greece
Romania
Oman
Panama
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
France
Norway
United Kingdom
Netherlands
Sweden
Slovenia
Germany
Italy
Luxembourg
United States
Qatar
Canada
Saudi Arabia“To continue a family tradition” “To earn a living because jobs are scarce”
Level B Level C Level A87 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportThere was less variation, but more association 
with income, for the motivation “to build great 
wealth or very high income” (Figure 8.1). Over 
three out of four new entrepreneurs agreed 
in four Level C economies, and three each in 
Level B and Level A. However, less than one in 
two new entrepreneurs agreed in two Level C, 
six Level B and five Level A economies. Within 
Level C economies, agreement ranged from 40% 
in Ecuador to 95% in Iran, in Level B from 37% in 
Spain to 85% in Cyprus, and in Level A from 34% 
in Norway to 91% in Saudi Arabia.
In previous Global Reports, the motivation 
“to continue a family tradition” was especially 
important in a minority of economies, and this 
is confirmed in 2023, with more than one in two 
entrepreneurs agreeing in just seven economies,31 
all outside Europe (Figure 8.2). In 35 of the 45 
economies, less than two in five agreed with this 
motivation (six Level C, 16 Level B and 13 Level A).
The motivation “to earn a living because jobs 
are scarce” was more popular, especially in the 
Level C and Level B economies, with the lowest 
levels of agreement, at less than three in 10 new 
entrepreneurs, in just three economies: Republic 
of Korea, Norway and Sweden, all from Level A. 
Conversely, this motivation was agreed by four out 
of five new entrepreneurs or more in nine Level C 
economies, three Level B economies and one 
Level A economy. Agreement with the motivations 
to make a difference or to accumulate great wealth 
hardly varies by income group. But to build great 
wealth and to continue a family tradition are more 
popular in lower-income economies.Previous Global Reports have looked at 
variations between men and women in motivation 
among new entrepreneurs (GEM Global Report 
2019/2020), and between younger and older 
entrepreneurs (GEM Global Report 2021/2022). 
Women and younger entrepreneurs were more 
likely to agree with the motivation “to make a 
difference in the world”, men were more likely to 
agree with “building great wealth or high income” 
or “to continue a family tradition”, while older 
entrepreneurs were more likely to agree with 
“earning a living because jobs are scarce”.
This report examines motivational differences 
according to levels of educational attainment. 
Table 8.1. shows the number of economies 
in which the proportion of graduate new 
entrepreneurs agreeing with the motivation 
exceeded the proportion of non-graduates.
For the motivation “to make a difference in 
the world”, there are 23 economies in which We survey new business founders on specific reasons for 
starting a business. One of these motivations includes 
“making a difference in the world”. There is wide variation 
in the proportion of adults starting or running a new 
business who agree with this motivation. Noteworthy is 
that in India, four out of five agreed.
Making a difference in the world has various connotations 
for different people. In all likelihood, these motivations can 
align to one or more of the 17 SDGs.SDG FOCUS . . .
TABLE 8.1 
Motivation by 
educational 
attainment: number 
of economies with 
the proportion of 
graduates agreeing 
with the motivation 
exceeding the 
proportion of 
non-graduates, 
and vice versa
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023MotivationOut of 45
Grad > Non-gradOut of 45
Non-grad > grad
“to make a difference in the world” 23 22
difference > 5 percentage points 15 7
“to build great wealth or very high income” 21 24
difference > 5 percentage points 11 15
“to continue a family tradition” 6 39
difference > 5 percentage points 4 27
“to earn a living because jobs are scarce” 11 34
difference > 5 percentage points 4 2631 Thailand, India, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Venezuela, 
Guatemala, and Panama.88 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportLily Dempster (Australia)
Cartier Women’s Initiative 2023 Fellow
Revolutionizing climate change mitigation 
one small step at a time
Many entrepreneurs have strong social and 
environmental concerns. One of GEM’s aims is to 
assess whether those concerns spill over into their 
business strategies.
One person for whom this is certainly the case 
is Lily Dempster, founder of One Small Step, a 
business focusing on rapid decarbonization via an 
app that helps anyone achieve net zero emissions 
through lifestyle changes.
People often feel confused and suffer information 
overload around climate-friendly options. So 
Dempster began looking at how behavioural science 
could make it easy, fast and rewarding. Launched in 
2018, the One Small Step app enables users to log 
current behaviours and then get a personalized plan 
to improve their carbon footprint and achieve net 
zero emissions. Said Dempster:
“You want to work with behaviour, not against 
it.”
Many think that sustainability is costly from a 
financial perspective. It can actually be the opposite.
“An average user of our app can save over 
$3,000 a year.” 
The origins of the business date back to Dempster’s 
time as a market impact director at Australia’s 
leading online community advocacy organization, 
where she ran campaigns encouraging consumers 
to switch to renewable energy. She realized how 
big an impact individual behaviour and consumer 
choices can make, particularly in high-income 
countries with high per capita footprints.
“With just a couple thousand people acting 
together, you can rapidly reduce emissions 
and also promote growth of zero-carbon businesses. That was the moment I shifted 
from top-down policy to grassroots consumer-
driven work. I knew that climate change 
was the biggest social justice issue of our 
generation and I wanted to dedicate my life to 
helping solve it.”
To date, each of the app’s 70,000 users in Australia 
and the United States have been able to reduce their 
carbon footprints by up to 50%, preventing eight 
million kilos of carbon emissions thus far.
The company’s goal is to roll out the app globally. 
The potential to reach the 1.5 billion or so people 
around the world who care about climate change 
keeps Dempster optimistic even in the face of the 
most pressing crisis of our time.
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change has noted that demand-side 
climate change mitigation, including consumer 
behaviour change, can make up a whopping 
40–70% of the world’s needed carbon emission 
reductions.
“It’s time to stop treating consumer behaviour 
change as a fringe issue in the fight against 
climate change.”
Dempster is a great example of how individual 
entrepreneurs can be a driver of societal impact to 
address some of society’s greatest challenges.HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
89 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportthe proportion of graduate new entrepreneurs 
exceeded the proportion of non-graduates, and 
22 economies in which the reverse was the case. 
So not much difference. The next row of the 
table only counts those economies in which the 
difference was (an arbitrary) five percentage 
points or more. In 15 economies the percentage 
of graduate new entrepreneurs who agreed with 
the motivation “to make a difference in the world” 
exceeded that of non-graduates by five percentage 
points or more, compared to only seven where the 
reverse was the case. So there is weak evidence 
that graduate new entrepreneurs are more likely 
to agree with the motivation “to make a difference 
in the world”.
The results for “building great wealth or very 
high income” are very similar, with some slight 
evidence that non-graduates are more likely 
to choose this motivation. Results for the final two motivations are much clearer, with higher 
proportions of non-graduate new entrepreneurs 
agreeing with “to continue a family tradition” 
in 39 of the 45 economies, and in 27 economies 
when differences are restricted to five percentage 
points or more. Similarly higher proportions of 
non-graduate new entrepreneurs agreed with 
“earning a living because jobs are scarce” in 34 
of 45 economies, or 26 when small differences are 
discounted.
So graduate new entrepreneurs are less likely 
than non-graduate new entrepreneurs to agree 
with “to continue a family tradition” or “to earn a 
living because jobs are scarce” as motivations for 
starting a business. Explanations might include 
that those starting a business to follow a family 
tradition may have less incentive (or opportunity) 
to graduate, while graduates may have more 
employment opportunities than non-graduates.
8.3 HOW MANY ADULTS EXITED A BUSINESS?
The GEM APS asks adults whether, “in the past 12 
months, they have sold, shut down, discontinued 
or quit a business they owned and managed”. The proportion of adults responding yes is the exit 
rate, shown in Figure 8.3. Subsequent questions 
consider whether the business continued its FIGURE 8.3 
The percentage 
of adults exiting 
a business in the 
past 12 months, 
and whether that 
business continued
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/two.tf/four.tf/six.tf/eight.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/one.tf/four.tf/one.tf/six.tf
China
India
Colombia
Morocco
Iran
Thailand
South Africa
Guatemala
Ecuador
Jordan
Brazil
Mexico
Venezuela
Ukraine
Romania
Greece
Cyprus
Lithuania
Slovak Republic
Spain
Poland
Hungary
Israel
Latvia
Estonia
Croatia
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Oman
Republic of Korea
Germany
Italy
United Kingdom
Norway
Switzerland
Slovenia
France
Sweden
Luxembourg
Netherlands
United States
Saudi Arabia
Qatar
CanadaExit, business continued Exit, business did not continue
Level B Level C Level A90 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportactivities after they quit, and what was the most 
important reason for the exit.
The total exit rate is shown by the height of 
each column. Exit rates were highest in Ukraine 
(14%) and Oman (13%), followed by four 
Level C economies (Venezuela, Mexico, Brazil 
and Jordan), and lowest in Level B (Romania, 
Greece, Cyprus and Lithuania) and Level A 
(Republic of Korea, Italy and Germany). Exit 
rates appear to decline slightly with income 
group, although with exceptions. Exiting a 
business is very much a minority activity, with 
less than one in 20 adults involved in 26 of the 
45 economies.
However, exiting a business doesn’t have 
to mean that the business did not continue its 
activities. In Figure 8.3, the share of businesses 
that continued their activities after exit is shown 
by the blue (darker) portion of the column. In 
most economies (37 out of 45), between one in 
five and one in two businesses continue their 
activities after the previous owner-manager 
exited, with the figure peaking at just under 
three in five in Lithuania and Saudi Arabia. Businesses were least likely to continue in 
Morocco and Romania (around one in 10).
Those exiting a business in the past year were 
asked to choose the most important reason from 
a list of 12, ranging from selling the business to 
family or personal reasons. Some of these reasons 
can be classed as positive (selling the business, 
another job or business opportunity or retirement) 
with the rest classed as negative. Figure 8.4 shows 
the distribution of exits by positive, negative 
or pandemic-related reasons. Many of the most 
important reasons are negative, ranging from 
less than two out of five exits in Norway and 
Switzerland to nine out of 10 in Jordan and the 
Republic of Korea. COVID continues to decline as 
the most important reason for exit, accounting for 
less than 1% of exits in Italy, Hungary, Lithuania 
and Iran, although still more than three in 10 exits 
in Thailand and Poland.
The proportion reporting positive reasons for 
exit generally rises with income group, from a low 
of about one in 20 exits in Jordan and Thailand, 
to around three in every five exits in Slovenia and 
Norway.FIGURE 8.4 
Positive, negative 
and COVID-
related reasons 
within total exits
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/two.tf/four.tf/six.tf/eight.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf
China
India
Colombia
Iran
Morocco
South Africa
Thailand
Guatemala
Ecuador
Venezuela
Jordan
Brazil
Mexico
Romania
Greece
Cyprus
Lithuania
Slovak Republic
Spain
Israel
Hungary
Poland
Latvia
Puerto Rico
Estonia
Croatia
Uruguay
Panama
Chile
Oman
Norway
Republic of Korea
Germany
Italy
United Kingdom
Slovenia
Switzerland
France
Sweden
Luxembourg
Netherlands
United States
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
CanadaNegative, not including COVID-/one.tf/nine.tf pandemic COVID-/one.tf/nine.tf pandemic Positive
Level B Level C Level A91 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report8.4 HOW RESILIENT ARE ENTREPRENEURS?
The recurrence of crises (social, economic, 
political, health and security), and the increased 
interdependence that comes with globalization, 
have underscored the importance of resilience: 
the ability to bounce back from the unexpected.
Earlier chapters have shown that the fear 
of failure is a significant obstacle to starting 
a new business, even among those who see 
good opportunities (Chapter 3, Figure 3.5). 
Despite this, many of those not currently 
involved in entrepreneurial activity expect 
to start a business in the next three years 
(Chapter 3, Figure 3.7). Resilience is crucial in 
entrepreneurship studies, particularly in the 
context of learning from failure and being ready 
for subsequent attempts.
In the face of disruption, resilience can 
enable entrepreneurs and businesses to adapt 
to new, risky environments and circumstances, 
by providing a platform for effectively managing 
environmental variability and uncertainty or by 
promoting the use of innovative practices. Some 
indication of this resilience can be estimated 
by looking at the proportion of those who have 
exited a business in the last 12 months who expect 
to start a new business in the next three years (Figure 8.5). Of course, some of these may have 
sold their previous businesses.
These results are surprisingly positive. Greece 
and Poland are outliers, at just 5% and 7% 
respectively, with every other economy having 
at least one in five of those who have exited a 
business expecting to start another in the next 
three years, including one in two or more in all 
Level C economies, seven out of 17 Level B and 
nine out of 15 Level A. The highest of all were 
Venezuela, Panama, Oman and India, in which 
more than three out of four of those exiting a 
business in the past 12 months expect to start 
another in the next three years.
Figure 8.4 showed that many of those exiting 
a business did so for positive reasons, but that 
proportion was typically low. Figure 8.5 points to 
considerable resilience, especially in low-income 
economies, and may suggest that the economic, 
social and ecological costs of exiting a business 
may not be as high as it is perceived to be by those 
who haven’t tried it yet.
It is interesting to compare the proportion of 
those exiting a business and expecting to start 
another in the next three years to the proportion 
of adults in the general population (which of FIGURE 8.5 
The percentage 
of those adults 
who have exited 
a business in the 
last 12 months 
who intend to start 
another business in 
the next three years
Source: GEM Adult 
Population Survey 2023% of adults /one.tf/eight.tf–/six.tf/four.tf
/zero.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/two.tf/zero.tf/three.tf/zero.tf/four.tf/zero.tf/five.tf/zero.tf/six.tf/zero.tf/seven.tf/zero.tf/eight.tf/zero.tf/nine.tf/zero.tf
Morocco
Iran
China
South Africa
Ecuador
Mexico
Colombia
Thailand
Jordan
Brazil
Guatemala
India
Venezuela
Greece
Poland
Hungary
Slovak Republic
Romania
Cyprus
Spain
Lithuania
Latvia
Estonia
Croatia
Uruguay
Israel
Puerto Rico
Chile
Panama
Oman
United Kingdom
Norway
Slovenia
Switzerland
Sweden
France
Italy
Netherlands
United States
Republic of Korea
Germany
Luxembourg
Qatar
Canada
Saudi Arabia
Level B Level C Level A92 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportcourse includes those who have exited) who 
intend to start a business in the next three years. 
In all but one economy (Greece), those who have 
exited a business in the past year are more likely 
than the general population to be expecting 
to start a business, and, in many cases, much 
more likely. In 32 of the 45 economies, someone who had exited a business was more than twice 
as likely to expect to start a business than the 
general population, including 10 times more likely 
in China (intention rate: general population, 
5.6%; intention rate: those who have exited, 56%) 
and seven times more likely in both South Africa 
(7 .5%, 58%) and Germany (7 .7%, 56%).
8.5 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS 
CHAPTER?
This chapter’s findings explore different 
ways in which policymakers can catalyse 
motivations and encourage more people to 
set up their own businesses. They also help 
to identify the main factors determining 
entrepreneurial exit, which may help to 
activate the necessary levers in the ecosystem 
for more sustainable entrepreneurship.
The dominant motivations to start a new 
business continue to be “to build great 
wealth or very high income” and “to earn a 
living because jobs are scarce”, especially 
in lower-income economies, although the 
latter motivation has less agreement among 
graduates than non-graduates. Previous Global 
Reports have suggested increasing the graduate 
rate as a way of enhancing entrepreneurship 
levels; increasing the graduate rate may 
also change the reasons that people start 
businesses.Exit rates are generally low, which is perhaps 
not too surprising when many of these economies 
also have the highest levels of early-stage 
entrepreneurial activity. The chapter showed that 
in all the low-income economies, and many of 
the others, a majority of those who had exited 
a business in the past 12 months expect to start 
another soon, and that business intention rates 
among those who had exited a business were 
usually much higher than among the general 
population. The only exception was Greece, 
where 10% of the adult population expect to start 
a business in the next three years, compared to 
just 5% of those who had exited a business in 
the past 12 months. It may well be worth careful 
consideration of how Greek entrepreneurs see the 
costs of exiting a business.
One implication of these results may be to 
understand where to look for long-term business 
resilience.PART 3
National Contexts 
and Individual 
Economy ProfilesThis part of the Global Report concerns the significance of place, first 
by setting out the GEM approach to analysing the characteristics of 
place that matter most to entrepreneurial activity, and then by assessing 
each economy against those characteristics. This is followed by a set of 
Economy Profiles, one for each of the GEM 2023 participating economies, 
including a “bird’s-eye view” of key country-specific GEM research 
results alongside basic socio-economic data for that economy. Each 
is accompanied by a Policy Roadmap which identifies strengths and 
weaknesses in individual entrepreneurial ecosystems as well as recent 
trends in entrepreneurial activities.95 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportWhere Are the Best Places 
to Start a Business?
Stephen Hill and Alicia Coduras
The decision to start a business is inevitably set 
within a local and national context, or the local 
and national conditions that can support or 
constrain that new business. Most people start 
businesses within their own neighbourhoods, 
since this is the place they know best.
The location may be a source of encouragement 
for the new enterprise by providing quality 
education (on starting a business, for example), 
by having excellent communication links (not 
just internet and mobile phone networks, but 
good roads, public transport, etc.), by providing 
access to resources, including finance, premises, 
affordable utilities and quality local services, and 
with markets that are both growing and easy to 
enter. Obviously, the reverse may be true: national 
and local governments may have few or low-quality 
programs to support enterprise, and may burden 
the new business with high taxes, fees and heavy bureaucracy. Social and cultural norms may 
discourage risk-taking. Women or minorities may 
feel there is little support for starting a businesses.
Of course, one key characteristic of a successful 
entrepreneur is tenacity in overcoming obstacles. 
Some businesses succeed in the most adverse 
of environments, while others may fail to grow 
despite the most auspicious circumstances. The 
success or failure of an individual new business is 
unpredictable. But a supportive environment can 
make a big difference as to whether the business 
gets started, and whether the businesses that do 
start endure into maturity. Evidence shown earlier 
reveals that some economies have much higher 
levels of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) than Established Business Ownership (EBO). 
In an unsupportive or hostile business environment, 
starting a new business may be significantly easier 
than managing a new business into maturity.
9.1 HOW CAN CONTEXT BE DEFINED AND MEASURED?
The GEM Adult Population Surveys (APS) have 
already provided some insights into the business 
context in participating economies: for example, 
in terms of whether the general public sees good 
opportunities to start a business, or considers 
it easy to start a business locally, among other 
factors. However, there are many other dimensions 
of the entrepreneurial environment that cannot be 
assessed from a population survey, because most 
individuals do not have the relevant knowledge or 
expertise to give an informed response.
The GEM approach to this issue is to define a 
number of factors that frame the entrepreneurial 
environment, known as the Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs), shown in Table 9.1. 
Assessment of these conditions is provided by 
a small survey of national experts: the National 
Expert Survey (NES). Each national expert, 
identified by National Teams and approved in advance by GEM, has expertise or experience 
in the entrepreneurial environment. These 
experts include business journalists, academics, 
finance experts, policymakers, etc., as well 
as entrepreneurs. They assess a number of 
statements about each EFCs and score the 
statement on an 11-point scale from completely 
false (0), to neither true nor false (5), to completely 
true (10). By presenting the same statements to 
national experts across different economies and 
over time, comparisons can be made. These expert 
assessments are then pooled to derive scores for 
each EFC. One caution is that the assessments 
themselves may be context-dependent.
The 2023 NES asked national experts to score 
additional statements about entrepreneurial 
priorities, including good environmental and 
sustainable practice, and about support for 
women entrepreneurs.9996 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report9.2 ARE MOST PLACES GOOD IN PARTS?
Summary expert-derived scores for each EFC in 
the participating economy32 are set out in the 
individual Economy Profiles in subsequent pages 
of this Global Report. This section features broad 
comparisons across economies and time.
Given that scores for each EFC can vary from 
0 to 10, a mid-point score of 5 may be considered 
as sufficient or satisfactory. Figure 9.1 shows 
the number of EFCs scored as sufficient (out 
of 13) in each economy, ranging from none 
(Iran) to all 13 (Netherlands and United Arab Emirates). While the chart shows some positive 
association between number of EFCs scored as 
sufficient and income level, that association 
is far from complete. Other factors likely to be 
important include culture (including attitudes 
to risk-taking), the policy environment, access to 
resources, levels of education (including creativity 
and innovation), and the nature and quality of 
support systems for entrepreneurship.
Two economies in Level C (India and China) 
had more EFCs scored as sufficient than 16 
economies in Level B and 10 economies in 
Level A, while two economies in Level A (Italy and 
Luxembourg) had fewer EFCs scored as sufficient 
than 15 economies in Level B and 10 economies in 
Level C.
This variability is evidenced for all EFCs in 
each income group. India had the highest score 
for 12 of the 13 EFCs in Level C, with Venezuela 
having the lowest scores for seven and Iran for 
three. Lithuania had the highest score in Level B 
for eight of the EFCs, and Estonia for three, while 
Argentina had the lowest score for four and the 
Slovak Republic for three. Finally in Level A, the 
United Arab Emirates had the highest EFC score 
for 12 EFCs, while lowest scores were shared 
between Norway, the United States and Italy, with 
two each.TABLE 9.1 
Summary of national 
Entrepreneurial 
Framework 
Conditions (EFCs)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance: there are sufficient funds for new startups
A2. Ease of Access to Entrepreneurial Finance: and those funds are easy to access
B1. Government Policy — Support and Relevance: policies promote and support startups
B2. Government Policy — Taxes and Bureaucracy: new businesses are not over-burdened
C. Government Entrepreneurial Programs: quality support programs are widely available
D1. Entrepreneurial Education at School: schools introduce entrepreneurial ideas
D2. Entrepreneurial Education Post-School: colleges offer courses in how to start a business
E. Research and Development Transfers: research is easily transferred into new businesses
F. Commercial and Professional infrastructure: quality services are available and affordable
G1. Ease of Entry — Market Dynamics: markets are free, open and growing
G2. Ease of Entry — Burdens and Regulations: regulations encourage not restrict entry
H. Physical Infrastructure: good-quality, available and affordable
I. Social and Cultural Norms: encourage and celebrate entrepreneurship
The GEM National Entrepreneurship Context Index (NECI) 
assesses the entrepreneurial ecosystem of each economy 
by assessing 13 Entrepreneurship Framework Conditions 
(EFCs).
Stakeholders in urban locations should particularly take 
note of the NECI as it connects to UN SDG #11: “Make 
cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and 
sustainable.”
Target 11.a notes the importance of supporting positive 
economic, social and environmental links between urban, 
peri-urban and rural areas by strengthening national and 
regional development planning.SDG FOCUS . . .
32 Recall that the 46 economies completing the GEM APS 
are joined by three more in the NES: Argentina, Japan 
and the United Arab Emirates.97 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report9.3 HAVE ENTREPRENEURIAL ENVIRONMENTS RECOVERED 
FROM THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC?
The 2022 Global Report suggested that, for a 
handful of economies (South Africa, Croatia, 
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates), there 
was evidence of some improvement in EFCs since 
2021, but for most economies the evidence was 
either too mixed, or changes too small, to draw 
conclusions. Two other economies, Mexico and 
Spain, showed some signs of deterioration in their 
EFCs.
This report compares scores for 2021 and 
2023 for each EFC, and for the 41 economies 
participating in the NES in both years, noting 
that many governments were providing strong 
financial support for businesses in 2021, 
especially in higher-income economies, and that 
by 2023 most of these support schemes had been 
reduced or withdrawn. Hence there may be some 
decline in scores for the EFCs Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance and for Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs. Table 9.2 sets out the 
details, simply counting the number of economies 
for which each EFC score had increased or 
decreased over the period. Many of these changes 
are very small, so the table also identifies those 
economies in which the particular EFC score either increased or decreased by a quarter or more 
from 2021.
For nine of 13 EFCs, many more economies 
experienced a decrease in score between 2021 and 
2023 than experienced an increase, including, as 
expected, for those EFCs most directly concerned 
with government, but also for both finance 
EFCs, for research and development transfers, 
commercial and professional infrastructure, and 
for physical infrastructure. Recurring economies 
in the list of those whose particular EFC scores 
had declined markedly included Spain, Iran, 
Israel and Norway.
Successive Global Reports have pointed to 
persistent low scores for the two educational 
EFCs, especially for entrepreneurial education 
at school, so seeing more economies with 
improvements than declines in these scores since 
2021 is very welcome. Six economies improved 
their entrepreneurial education at school by 
more than 25%, although less welcome were the 
five economies whose score fell by 25% or more. 
Market dynamics and social and cultural norms 
both had more economies with score increases 
than with decreases, hinting that many economies FIGURE 9.1  
Number of 
Entrepreneurial 
Framework 
Conditions (out 
of 13) scored as 
sufficient (score ≥5) 
(49 economies, 2023)
Source: GEM National 
Expert Survey, 2023No. of sufﬁcient EFC scores
/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/three.tf/four.tf/five.tf/six.tf/seven.tf/eight.tf/nine.tf/one.tf/zero.tf/one.tf/one.tf/one.tf/two.tf/one.tf/three.tf
Iran
South Africa
Brazil
Ecuador
Colombia
Mexico
Morocco
Thailand
Venezuela
Guatemala
Ukraine
Jordan
China
India
Cyprus
Spain
Croatia
Slovak Republic
Argentina
Greece
Israel
Japan
Panama
Poland
Romania
Chile
Hungary
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Latvia
Oman
Estonia
Lithuania
Italy
Luxembourg
Norway
Sweden
United States
Germany
Slovenia
Canada
United Kingdom
France
Switzerland
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Saudi Arabia
Netherlands
United Arab Emirates
Level B Level C Level A98 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportwere recovering strongly post-pandemic, and 
that social support for entrepreneurship was 
improving. Recurring economies in the list of 
those whose particular EFC scores had increased 
markedly included India and Oman.Overall, it is difficult to interpret these 
results as pointing to improvements in national 
entrepreneurial environments since the 
pandemic, not least because of diminishing 
support packages to business.TABLE 9.2  
Changes in 
Entrepreneurial 
Framework 
Condition Scores, 
2021–2023 (41 
economies)
Source: GEM National 
Expert Surveys, 
2021 and 2023Framework Condition 
(as in Table 9.1)Number of economies in 
which score decreasedNumber of economies in 
which score increased
A1. Finance 26 15
Change 25%+ Iran, Spain India
A2. Access 26 15
Change 25%+ Iran, Norway, Spain, Sweden India
B1. Policy 27 14
Change 25%+ Colombia, Israel, Mexico, Spain Croatia, India
B2. Burdens 23 18
Change 25%+ Israel, Norway, Spain India, Oman
C. Programs 24 17
Change 25%+ Spain India
D1. Schools 16 25
Change 25%+Cyprus, Norway, Israel, 
Spain, VenezuelaBrazil, India, Iran, Panama, 
Slovenia, United Arab Emirates
D2. Colleges 13 28
Change 25%+ Israel Spain
E. R&D Transfer 24 17
Change 25%+ SpainIndia, Morocco, Romania, 
Oman, United Arab Emirates
F. Commercial 26 15
Change 25%+ Iran, Spain India, Oman
G1. Entry Dynamics 14 25
Change 25%+Hungary, Norway, Slovak 
Republic, Luxembourg
G2. Entry Burden 23 18
Change 25%+ Israel India, Oman
H. Infrastructure 27 13
Change 25%+ Iran Oman
I. Culture 17 28
Change 25%+ Spain India, Panama, South Africa99 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report9.4 CAN CONTEXT BE SUMMARIZED IN ONE NUMBER?
Many economies demonstrate some improvement 
in particular EFCs but some decline in others. 
It is difficult to assess whether these national 
entrepreneurial environments have improved 
or not, or to compare across economies. In 
2021 GEM addressed this issue directly, by 
introducing a single number to represent the quality of a particular economy’s entrepreneurial 
environment: the National Entrepreneurship 
Context Index, or NECI.
The NECI is simply the average EFC score for 
a specific economy. Figure 9.2 sets out the results 
for 2023. Unsurprisingly, economies with many 
EFCs scored as sufficient scored well in the NECI. FIGURE 9.2  
National 
Entrepreneurial 
Context Index 
(NECI), 2023
Source: GEM National 
Expert Survey, 2023
NECI scoreUnited Arab Emirates
India
Saudi Arabia
Lithuania
Qatar
Estonia
Netherlands
Republic of Korea
Switzerland
China (PRC)
Oman
France
Latvia
Canada
Slovenia
United States
Germany
Norway
Sweden
Jordan
Chile
United Kingdom
Luxembourg
Greece
Hungary
Italy
Japan
Uruguay
Ukraine
Morocco
Romania
Croatia
Poland
Thailand
Panama
Puerto Rico
Colombia
Israel
Slovak Republic
Cyprus
Mexico
Ecuador
Argentina
Spain
Guatemala
Brazil
South Africa
Venezuela
Iran
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 106.6
6.37.7
6.1
6.0
5.9
5.9
5.8
5.5
5.4
5.4
5.0
5.0
4.8
4.8
4.8
4.8
4.7
4.7
4.7
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.6
4.5
4.5
4.4
4.4
4.3
4.3
4.3
4.3
4.3
4.3
4.2
4.2
4.1
4.1
4.0
4.0
3.9
3.9
3.8
3.8
3.2
2.83.8
3.63.9100 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportAtilana Piñón  
(Chile and Colombia)
Cartier Women’s Initiative 2023 Fellow
Empowering entrepreneurial dreams: 
how fintech innovation transforms cross-
border finances
We live in a globally connected world. But it 
doesn’t often seem like that when it comes 
to personal finances. And while in theory an 
entrepreneur can trade all over the world, what 
constitutes a propitious place to start a business 
varies considerably (as we learn in this chapter, 
amplified by the data in our Economy Profiles).
Fintech entrepreneur Atilana Piñón can relate to 
both of these dynamics. Born in Colombia, raised 
in Venezuela, she relocated to Chile, partly because 
of the more favourable economic opportunities 
and entrepreneurial environment. But she still 
had to support her family and pay the employees 
in her micropayments startup back in Venezuela. 
Alarmingly, she was unable to open a bank account 
and there was no affordable option to send money.
She investigated cheaper alternatives to popular 
wire transfer services, trying an option that involved 
contacting someone through WhatsApp.
“I didn’t know if I was talking to a business or 
a person. They asked me to pay with a bank 
transfer and I had no idea who I would be 
sending money to.”
Such unsettling interactions gave birth to an idea.
“Trust is so important where money is 
concerned. I thought that there was definitely 
a better way.”
Piñón pivoted her business and created Retorna, an 
app to enable remittances to be sent at reasonable 
exchange rates and for low fees. In four simple steps, 
people can send money home from anywhere, 
risk-free, with delivery in less than two hours. The company also lets users pay with cash: with over 
25,000 cash collection points in Colombia and Chile, 
the service can be accessed even without a bank 
account.
A fair, secure remittance system helps realize the 
entrepreneurial dreams of those who migrate 
to start a business elsewhere. Access to financial 
services keeps immigrants connected to family.
Since 2019, the company’s 50,000 customers have 
saved US$2.1 million in fees compared to what they 
would have paid using other services. The platform 
has a proven security record, having engaged in over 
1.8 million transactions totalling US$78 million with 
no fraud incidents.
Retorna’s next move will be to expand to countries 
with limited financial services. It also plans to 
branch out beyond money transfers by adding 
banking services in the Latin American region. Piñón 
explained:
“In the US there are around 5,000 banks for 
300 million people. In Latin America there are 
200 banks for the same number of people. We 
want to make financial services affordable 
and accessible, especially focusing on 
immigrants because we want to keep them 
connected to their loved ones.”HUMAN FACES 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the Cartier Women’s Initiative, one of our report sponsors, for providing 
this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
101 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportEconomies with EFC scores that have increased 
markedly in recent years have moved up the 
rankings. Once again, there is some (imperfect) 
association with income level, with six of the 
top 10 NECI scores from economies in Level A, 
while seven of the bottom 10 NECI scores are 
from economies in Level C. Yet China and India 
are both in the NECI top 10, India having moved 
up from fourth in 2022 to second in 2023, while 
China has moved from 11th to 10th. Lithuania, 
in Level B, has improved from sixth in 2022 to 
fourth in 2023, and is joined in the top 10 by 
Level B Estonia. So high income is no guarantee 
of a positive environment in which to start a 
business, just as low income need not prevent the attainment of a high-quality environment in 
which to start and grow a business.
Of course, in most economies, NECI scores 
averaged over the 13 EFCs change very slowly 
over time. For the 41 economies participating in 
the GEM NES in both 2022 and 2023, 26 saw falls 
in their NECI score, with one unchanged and 
14 increases. For 21 of these 41 economies, the 
change in NECI score was less than 5% of their 
2022 score. The largest relative increases in NECI 
scores were in Poland and Oman, with the largest 
relative falls in Israel and Iran. As a result, Israel 
and Oman more or less swapped places in the 
NECI league table, with Oman rising from 38th to 
11th, while Israel fell from 12th to 38th.
9.5 SO WHERE IS THE BEST PLACE TO START A BUSINESS IN 
2023?
Figure 9.2 showed the United Arab Emirates 
at the top of the NECI league table, having 
extended its lead from 0.9 points in 2022 (over 
Saudi Arabia) to 1.1 points in 2023 (over India). 
Moreover, the United Arab Emirates scored 
highest across the entire sample of 49 economies 
in 2023 in all but one of the EFCs (slightly behind 
Saudi Arabia for Ease of Entry: Burdens and 
Regulations). Other Gulf countries have also 
improved their entrepreneurial environment, 
including Oman and Qatar as well as Saudi 
Arabia. Outside of the Gulf, India has a rapidly 
improving environment for entrepreneurship, 
as do Lithuania and China. Each may offer a 
relatively low-cost supportive environment 
in which to start a new business. Switzerland 
and the Netherlands also have high-quality entrepreneurial environments at the heart of 
Europe, although it would be difficult to describe 
either as relatively low-cost.
A number of Latin America & Caribbean 
economies have entrepreneurial environments 
that are improving slowly, including Argentina, 
Mexico, Puerto Rico, Brazil and Chile, although 
Colombia appears to have taken a step back in 
2023. Finally, if a NECI score of 5.0 can be regarded 
as a sufficiently supportive entrepreneurial 
environment, a number of developed economies 
in Europe and North America have seen their 
entrepreneurial environments slip from more than 
sufficient to less than sufficient in 2023. These 
include Canada, Sweden, Norway, Germany and 
the United States, with both France and Latvia 
very close to joining them.
9.6 WHAT ARE THE PERCEIVED PRIORITIES OF NEW 
BUSINESSES?
The NES also sought expert assessments in two 
key additional areas. One is: how important are 
good environmental and sustainability practices 
relative to economic performance?
These expert perceptions are summarized 
in Figure 9.3, which shows expert scores for 
the perceived priority that those running new 
and growing businesses gave to economic 
performance, good environmental practices and 
good sustainability practices, respectively. The first point to note is that these perceived priorities 
are complements rather than substitutes: in that, 
if an economy’s score for one is high, its score 
for the others is likely to be high.33 Secondly, if a 
score of 5 or more is regarded as satisfactory, then 
33 The pairwise correlation coefficients between scores 
were: for economic performance and environmental 
practice, 0.848; for environmental and sustainability 
practices, 0.802; and for economic performance and 
sustainability practices, 0.721.102 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportof the 4834 economies, 22 scored satisfactorily 
in terms of the priority given to economic 
performance (three from Level C, six from B 
and 13 from A), 36 scored satisfactorily for the 
priority given to good environmental practices 
(4 from Level C, 17 from B and 15 from A), and 39 
scored satisfactorily for the priority given to good 
sustainability practices (9 from Level C, 14 from B 
and 16 from A). So while the number of economies 
with satisfactory scores typically increased 
with income group, there is no evidence that 
prioritizing good environmental or sustainability 
practices was only affordable for higher-income economies. Indeed, three times as many Level C 
economies scored over 5 for prioritizing good 
sustainability practices than they did for 
prioritizing economic performance.
These three scores added together give some 
indication of the prioritization perceived by 
experts as given to these three complementary 
objectives. The highest total was for the United 
Arab Emirates (23.6), closely followed by India 
(20.6), and Sweden and Estonia (both 19.9). The 
lowest total scores, indicating priorities that 
were seen to lie elsewhere, were for Iran (7 .9), 
Venezuela (11.1) and Israel (12.1).
9.7 DO WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS GET THE SUPPORT AND 
ACCESS TO RESOURCES THEY NEED?
The second area of additional assessment 
concerned women’s entrepreneurship: do the 
experts perceive women entrepreneurs as getting 
the social support they need, and do men have 
more access to key resources necessary to start and run a new business? The support that could 
help women entrepreneurs in particular includes 
things like affordable childcare, after-school clubs 
or eldercare, as well as regulations that make 
working for themselves at least as attractive as 
being employed. Access to resources includes the 
accessibility of markets, whether women have less FIGURE 9.3 
National expert scores 
for the perceived 
prioritization 
of economic 
performance, good 
environmental 
practices and 
good sustainability 
practices
Source: GEM National 
Expert Survey, 2023National expert score 
/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/three.tf/four.tf/five.tf/six.tf/seven.tf/eight.tf
Iran
Brazil
Venezuela
Ecuador
South Africa
Mexico
Jordan
Colombia
Morocco
Thailand
Ukraine
China
India
Argentina
Cyprus
Israel
Spain
Puerto Rico
Panama
Chile
Poland
Hungary
Slovak Republic
Uruguay
Romania
Oman
Greece
Croatia
Japan
Latvia
Estonia
Lithuania
United States
Italy
United Kingdom
Canada
Luxembourg
Qatar
Sweden
France
Netherlands
Germany
Norway
Slovenia
Saudi Arabia
Switzerland
Republic of Korea
United Arab EmiratesEconomic Environment Social
Level B Level C Level A
34 Guatemalan experts didn’t assess this issue.103 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportEmpowering Tomorrow’s 
Entrepreneurs in Switzerland 
through Education and 
Experience
ADOpreneurs
School of Management Fribourg (HEG-FR) 
Professor Raphaël Gaudart joined the Swiss Global 
Entrepreneurship Monitor team back in 2015. One 
particular finding stood out for him: Switzerland 
was lagging behind other peer economies with 
regard to entrepreneurship education in primary 
schools. 
Gaudart decided he would proactively address this 
concern by launching a summer entrepreneurship 
camp for teenagers in Fribourg. He identified 
a sponsor — the Fribourg Canton Chamber 
of Commerce — which made it possible for 17 
teenagers to go through a week-long immersion 
into the world entrepreneurship.
“ADOpreneurs” was launched in July 2016, also in 
partnership with the Engineering School and the 
Innovation Lab Fribourg. It has been running every 
year since (with the exceptions of 2020 and 2021 due 
to COVID-19). Said Gaudart:
“ADOpreneurs was the opportunity for these 
young people to immerse themselves in the 
practical world of entrepreneurship since they 
had to create from A to Z a small enterprise.”
The students meet with entrepreneurs, visit 
different companies (including Google’s offices 
in Zurich) and take part in various interactive 
activities related to entrepreneurship, such as 
brainstorming and creativity sessions. They work on 
creating a prototype for a business and designing 
a basic website to introduce their new ideas. They 
also learn the art of storytelling, finding the right 
formula for allocating roles in a company, defining 
a budget and looking for potential partners.The week culminates with a launch event in which 
the teenagers present their projects to parents, 
professors and representatives from the different 
organizations involved with ADOpreneurs. According 
to Marie, a former participant:
“It’s great to carry out a project and get 
help and guidance from entrepreneurs and 
professionals.”
Timon, another former participant, added:
“It was fun, varied but also educational. As an 
entrepreneur you have a lot of freedom but 
you also have to think about a lot of things.”THE REAL WORLD 
BEHIND THE 
DATA . . .
Thank you to the School of Management Fribourg (HEG-FR), one of our report 
sponsors, for providing this material and helping to put our data in a real-world context.
104 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Reportpublic procurement opportunities, and less access 
to financing compared to men.
Figure 9.4 shows expert scores for their 
perceptions of the level of support for women 
entrepreneurs, and their access to the resources 
necessary to run a new and growing business. 
This time the perceptions are very different, and 
there is little correlation in the same economy 
between the score for support and the score for 
access to resources.35 Of the 49 economies, only 
11 scored as satisfactory in terms of support for 
women entrepreneurs (one from Level C, four 
from Level B and six from Level A), whereas 27 
scored satisfactory for women entrepreneurs 
having similar access to resources compared to 
men (seven Level C, seven Level B and 13 Level A).
In 39 of these economies, the score for access 
to resources exceeded the score for support. 
Economies appear to have made much more 
progress in ensuring equal access to resources than they have in providing the support (often 
social) that some women need to run their 
businesses. The highest expert scores for 
perceived support for women entrepreneurs were 
in the United Arab Emirates, India and Saudi 
Arabia, with the lowest scores in Iran, Cyprus and 
Brazil. Indeed, there were far too many economies 
with poor scores for social support of women 
entrepreneurs, with 22 of the 49 economies 
scoring 3.5 or less, including three from Level A 
(Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States), 
11 from Level B and eight from Level C. There is 
considerable room for improvement across the 
board.
The perceived access to resources for women 
entrepreneurs relative to men was rather better, 
not only with more high scores but with many 
fewer low ones. Only two economies scored less 
than 3.5 (Oman and Ukraine), although both 
Spain and Slovenia were close.
35 The correlation coefficient is 0.117 .FIGURE 9.4 
National expert 
scores for the 
perceived social 
support for women 
entrepreneurs, 
and their relative 
access to the 
resources necessary 
to start and run 
their businesses
Source: GEM National 
Expert Survey, 2023National expert score 
/zero.tf/one.tf/two.tf/three.tf/four.tf/five.tf/six.tf/seven.tf/eight.tf
Iran
Brazil
Mexico
Venezuela
Morocco
Guatemala
Ecuador
Colombia
Jordan
South Africa
Thailand
China (PRC)
Ukraine
India
Cyprus
Israel
Japan
Greece
Slovak Republic
Poland
Spain
Croatia
Chile
Romania
Argentina
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Hungary
Panama
Estonia
Oman
Latvia
Lithuania
Italy
United Kingdom
United States
Germany
Luxembourg
Switzerland
Canada
France
Netherlands
Republic of Korea
Slovenia
Norway
Qatar
Sweden
Saudi Arabia
United Arab EmiratesSupport Resources
Level B Level C Level A105 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report9.8 WHAT ARE THE POLICY IMPLICATIONS OF THIS 
CHAPTER?
If an EFC score of 5 or more is regarded as 
sufficient or satisfactory, two economies had 
sufficient scores for all their EFCs in 2023: the 
United Arab Emirates and the Netherlands. 
Iran, a consistent supporter of both GEM and 
entrepreneurship, scored as unsatisfactory for 
all of its EFCs. The GEM NES has provided many 
examples of economies that have improved 
their EFCs over several years: Oman is a recent 
example. There may be opportunities for 
Iran to draw inspiration from some of these 
examples.
To examine whether national entrepreneurial 
environments had recovered from the COVID-19 
pandemic, EFC scores in 2023 were compared 
to 2021. For nine of the 13 EFCs, many more 
economies had reductions in their score than 
had increases, probably exacerbated by the 
withdrawal of pandemic-related government 
business support schemes and by the war in 
Ukraine and its impacts on energy prices pushing 
up inflation. Spain, Iran, Israel and Norway had 
the most severe declines in EFC scores. These 
economies in particular need to consider very 
carefully what support they can offer new 
businesses.
On a brighter note, scores for the two 
educational EFCs were more likely to have 
increased than decreased since 2021. Successive 
GEM Global Reports have called for improvements 
in these areas, so this change is welcome. 
However, despite this general increase, there 
were still five economies whose score for 
Entrepreneurial Education at School had 
declined by more than a quarter since 2021: 
Cyprus, Norway, Israel, Spain and Venezuela. 
These economies in particular need to be 
aware that many new businesses may never 
come to fruition because a generation of 
schoolchildren grew up unaware that starting 
a business was a possibility.
Despite these changes, it is difficult to see 
national entrepreneurial environments overall 
as having recovered from the impacts of the pandemic. In particular, many governments 
may need to take steps to support new 
businesses through their policies and 
programs if these environments are to recover 
fully. This conclusion is further supported by the 
evidence that many more economies saw their 
overall entrepreneurial environment score (the 
NECI) fall in 2023 than saw an increase.
The United Arab Emirates retained (and 
extended) its position at the top of the NECI 
league table, scoring highest of all 49 economies 
in 12 of the 13 EFCs. Other Gulf economies 
also improved their NECI scores, as did India, 
China and Lithuania. However, a handful of 
well-developed, high-income economies in 
Europe and North America saw their NECI scores 
slip from sufficient to less than sufficient in 2023, 
including Canada, the United States, Sweden, 
Norway and Germany. It should be chastening 
to their respective governments that these 
entrepreneurial environments have been allowed 
to deteriorate to this extent, which may prove a 
challenge to their future prosperity. Improving 
the entrepreneurial environment can be a 
long and slow process, and these economies 
need to begin to reverse this decline now.
Economic performance, good environmental 
practices and good sustainability practices turn 
out to be complementary rather than competing 
priorities, with national experts perceiving high 
degrees of prioritization for each of these in many 
economies. However, national experts see women 
entrepreneurs in many economies as struggling 
to get the social support they need to run their 
businesses, reaching satisfactory levels in just 10 
of the 49 economies. Some Gulf economies have 
made significant improvements in this area, 
and other economies may have a lot to learn 
from them about the necessary actions to 
turn their own situation around. There is much 
more favourable evidence that women were able 
to access the appropriate resources to start and 
grow their businesses as well as men, reaching 
satisfactory levels or better in 28 economies.ECONOMY PROFILE106 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Argentina
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.0 (19/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
2.0 (19/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
2.2 (19/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.4 (17/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.6 (11/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.2 (7/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.8 (18/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.7 (17/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.6 (2/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.1 (13/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.7 (16/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.4 (12/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.4 (17/19)Argentina
 QPopulation (2022): 46.2 million (World Bank)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 26.5 thousand (World Bank)
Argentina did not participate in the 
2023 Adult Population Survey.107 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Argentina’s economy was stagnating in 2023, 
exacerbated by the drought, with GDP expected to 
fall by 2% over the year and inflation apparently set to 
be just under 200%. However, the election of a new 
president promised to provide some stability and 
recovery. The principal impact of high inflation on 
entrepreneurs has been to increase uncertainty around 
all decisions, but especially investments.
In Argentina, excessive regulations hinder 
entrepreneurship, with restrictions on access to 
external trade, in obtaining foreign exchange and in 
labour markets. Entrepreneurs also have to endure 
excessive taxation.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Despite the parlous state of its economy, the assessed 
quality of the overall entrepreneurial environment in 
Argentina improved slightly in 2023, although it was 
still regarded as much less than sufficient.
In 2023, 39 Argentinian experts rated just three 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) as 
1 In GEM the overall quality of an economy’s entrepreneurial 
environment is assessed by asking a sample of that 
economy’s national experts to rate 13 carefully defined 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs). These ratings 
are turned into a score for each condition on a scale from 
0 to 10, with the midpoint (5.0) representing the watershed 
between sufficient and insufficient. The average of these 
EFC scores is the National Entrepreneurial Context Index 
(NECI).sufficient or better: Entrepreneurial Education 
Post-School, Physical Infrastructure, and Ease of 
Entry: Market Dynamics, with the latter scored 
as strongest of Argentina’s conditions for the 
second year running. That left 10 conditions rated 
as insufficient, many by a wide margin. Four 
conditions were scored as very poor (score <3.0): 
both Government Policy conditions, Entrepreneurial 
Education at School and Research and Development 
Transfers.
Nevertheless, eight conditions improved relative to 
2022, with four scoring lower. Most differences were 
small, the largest increase being for Government 
Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy (which had scored 
even worse a year earlier), while the largest fall was 
for Physical Infrastructure. Despite some increases, 
seven of Argentina’s framework conditions ranked in 
the bottom 10 across the 49 economies in the GEM 
National Expert Survey (NES) in 2023. However, the 
average of Argentina’s framework condition scores, 
labelled by GEM as the National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI), and used as measure of the 
overall quality of an entrepreneurial environment, was 
3.9 in 2023, up from 3.7 a year earlier, and pushing 
Argentina up the NECI league from 46th of 51 to 43rd 
of 49.
Additional questions asked national experts to rate 
the social support for women entrepreneurs, and those 
women entrepreneurs’ access to resources relative to 
men. Argentina scored 3.5 for social support (28th), 
and, like many economies, scored better for relative 
access to resources, at 4.8 (32nd).
Institution
Lead institution
IAE Business School
Type of institution
Business School
Website
https://www.iae.edu.ar
Team
Team leader
Silvia Torres CarbonellTeam members
Araceli Calja
Victoria Galera
Funders
IAE Business SchoolAPS vendor
Estrategia&Gestión MDQ SRL 
FAWARIS
Contact
scarbonell@iae.edu.arECONOMY PROFILE108 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Brazil
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
2.9 (12/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.4 (5/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
2.8 (12/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.7 (6/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.4 (9/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.8 (8/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.8 (9/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.5 (10/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.5 (5/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.1 (12/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.7 (11/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.5 (11/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.5 (9/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 37.4 18
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago45.0 26
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services90.4 1
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 67.0 2Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 18.6 13 14.7 22.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)11.9 8 8.0 15.9Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 76.5 3
To build great wealth or very high income 66.6 14=
To continue a family tradition 36.3 13
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 74.1 15
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)5.8 9
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 1.6 42
Always consider social impact 89.2 5
Always consider environmental impact 90.4 4
Industry (% TEA in business services) 17.3 26Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business70.9 6
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area65.4 14
It is easy to start a business 43.1 29
Personally have the skills and knowledge 65.9 19
Fear of failure (opportunity) 46.9 18
Entrepreneurial intentions 48.7 5Brazil
 QPopulation (2022): 215.3 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 17.8 thousand (World Bank)109 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Brazilian GDP growth was stable in 2023, expected 
to be just under 3% for the year, while inflation had 
fallen to around 4%. Business sales were down, and the 
fiscal deficit was up. The Brazilian Central Bank was 
maintaining high interest rates to combat inflation, 
inhibiting business lending.
Brazil has been reforming its tax and business 
regulations, reducing both business costs and the time 
needed to register a new business, now down to less 
than a day — a new record.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The assessed overall quality of the Brazilian 
entrepreneurial environment fell sharply in the 
COVID-19 pandemic, but has begun to recover. In 
2023, only two of Brazil’s Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) scored as sufficient — Ease of 
Entry: Market Dynamics and Physical Infrastructure 
— leaving 11 as insufficient. Four were very poor with 
scores less than three: Entrepreneurial Education 
at School, Research and Development Transfers, 
Government Policies: Taxes and Bureaucracy, and Ease 
of Access to Entrepreneurial Finance, with the latter 
ranking 47th among the 49 GEM economies. As usual, 
Entrepreneurial Education at School scored lowest, 
and Physical Infrastructure highest.
Eight of these scores were higher in 2023 than 
a year earlier, with the largest increases being for 
Entrepreneurial Education Post-School and Physical 
Infrastructure. As a result, Brazil’s overall score for the 
quality of the entrepreneurial environment improved 
from 3.6 to 3.8, ranking Brazil 46th of 49 economies.
Additional questions asked national experts to rate 
Brazil’s social support for women entrepreneurs and 
their access to resources compared to men. Brazil 
scored poorly for social support (2.4, ranked 46th), 
but very well for comparative access to resources (6.3, 
ranked 5th).
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Nearly two in five adults in Brazil reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, a substantial 
proportion but down from three in five two years 
earlier. Despite this, nearly one in 10 adults have 
invested in someone else’s new business, the fifth 
highest level in GEM 2023.
Entrepreneurship has a high public profile in Brazil, 
with seven in 10 adults knowing someone who had 
started a business recently, while two out of three 
saw good opportunities to start a business locally 
or considered themselves as having the skills and 
experience to start their own. However, nearly one in 
two of those seeing good opportunities would not start 
a business for fear it might fail. Nevertheless, almost 
a half of those not already doing so expected to start 
their own business in the next three years — the fourth 
highest level in GEM.
The proportion of adults in Brazil who were starting 
or running a new business in 2023 was more than one 
in four, a stable proportion over the past three years. 
Men were more likely to start a business than women, 
with around five men starting new businesses for every 
three women doing the same. The rate of Established 
Business Ownership was relatively high at about one in 
eight, and had been rising steadily since the depths of 
the pandemic.
Making a difference in the world was the most 
agreed motivation among new entrepreneurs at 
three out of four, just ahead of making a living 
because jobs are scarce. Very few new entrepreneurs 
had customers beyond Brazil, although that may 
change, given that nine out of 10 expected to use 
more digital technologies to sell their products in 
the next six months. Three in 10 new entrepreneurs 
expected to employ at least another six people over 
the next five years, an impressive rate when one in 
two of those starting or running a new business was 
a solo entrepreneur, with one owner and no current 
employees.
Institution
Lead institution
ANEGEPE
Type of institution
Non-governmental organizationWebsite
https://anegepe.org.br
Other institutions involved
Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e 
Pequenas Empresas (SEBRAE)
Team
Team leader
Simara GrecoTeam members
Vinicius Larangeiras de Souza
Edmundo Inácio Junior
Rose Mary Almeida Lopes
Edmilson de Oliveira Lima
Paulo Alberto Bastos Jr
Roberto Pessoa de Queiroz Falcão
Fernando Antônio Prado Gimenez
Joana Paula MachadoFunders
Serviço Brasileiro de Apoio às Micro e 
Pequenas Empresas (SEBRAE)
APS vendor
Mirador Pesquisas
Contact
simaragreco@yahoo.com.brECONOMY PROFILE110 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Canada
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.8 (7/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
4.5 (8/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.0 (8/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.9 (12/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.6 (8/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.7 (13/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.3 (12/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.5 (11/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.2 (8/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.3 (13/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.2 (12/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.1 (10/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.9 (9/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 29.9 27
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago46.1 22=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services54.1 19
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 55.9 10Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 19.8 11 15.4 24.2
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.8 16= 6.5 9.0Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 62.3 11
To build great wealth or very high income 69.0 12
To continue a family tradition 41.6 9
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 67.2 22
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)4.9 12
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 21.1 8
Always consider social impact 71.3 26=
Always consider environmental impact 65.7 33
Industry (% TEA in business services) 29.6 12Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business51.6 28
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area62.6 18
It is easy to start a business 63.7 10
Personally have the skills and knowledge 56.7 25
Fear of failure (opportunity) 54.6 6
Entrepreneurial intentions 14.3 27Canada
 QPopulation (2022): 38.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 58.4 thousand (World Bank)
111 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Canadian GDP growth looked set to slow to just 1.4% 
in 2023, as higher borrowing costs weighed heavily on 
business activity. At the same time, inflation has been 
falling, from 6.8% in 2022 to an expected 3.6% in 2023.
The Canadian government has delayed repayment 
of funds lent to business during the pandemic. It 
has also announced the creation of the Canadian 
Innovation Corporation to increase business spending 
on research and development. A new Canadian 
Growth Fund will invest in businesses developing 
green technologies.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The Canadian entrepreneurial environment, as 
measured by the National Entrepreneurial Context 
Index (NECI), has been stable in recent years, hovering 
just above sufficient with a score of around 5.1. In 2023, 
the score declined to less than sufficient (4.8).
There were sharp falls in the scores for those 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) most 
closely associated with government, with Government 
Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy reduced from 5.8 in 
2022 to 5.0 in 2023, while Government Policy: Support 
and Relevance fell from 5.2 to 4.5 and Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs from 5.6 to 4.9. Partly as 
a result, the number of Canadian EFCs assessed as 
sufficient (score ≥5.0) had been seven in 2022 but was 
down to five in 2023. Some of this downturn may be 
associated with the gradual withdrawal of government 
support during the pandemic.
Additional questions in the 2023 National Expert 
Survey (NES) sought expert views of the sufficiency of 
social support available to women entrepreneurs, as 
well as how women entrepreneurs’ access to resources 
compared to that of men. As with many economies, 
Canada scored fairly poorly on the former (a score 
of 4.0), but much better on access to resources (5.9, 
eighth highest of the 49 economies).
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Three in 10 Canadian adults reported that their 
household income had declined in 2023, a significant 
proportion but one that has been steadily falling from 
the four in 10 when this question was first introduced 
in 2020. Despite this, levels of entrepreneurial 
activity in Canada are not only high but increasing, 
reaching 19.6% in 2023 (up from 16.5% in 2022). Male 
entrepreneurial activity (24.2%) was higher than that 
of females (15.4%), possibly influenced by the lack 
of social support for women entrepreneurs noted 
earlier. A small increase in Established Business 
Ownership is encouraging, when the long-term trend 
had been downward, which suggested difficulty in 
converting Canada’s relatively high rate of startups into 
established businesses.
Entrepreneurship continues to enjoy a high profile 
in Canada, with more than half of adults knowing 
someone who recently started their own business, or 
seeing themselves as having the skills and experience 
to do the same. Meanwhile, two out of three adults 
see good opportunities to start a business, but more 
than half of these would not do so for fear it might fail, 
matching the levels of the depth of the pandemic.
The two economic motivations (building great 
wealth or very high income, and earning a living 
because jobs are scarce) were agreed by almost 
seven in 10 new Canadian entrepreneurs. Making a 
difference to the world was not far behind at six in 
10. New Canadian entrepreneurs have no difficulty 
in managing multiple motivations. One in three new 
entrepreneurs had customers beyond Canada, while 
one in two expected to use more digital technologies 
in the next six months.
The proportion of new entrepreneurs expecting 
to employ at least another six people over the next 
five years has been slowly increasing in recent years, 
approaching one in four in 2023, back above the 
pre-pandemic level in 2019.
Institution
Lead institution
The Centre for Innovation Studies 
(THECIS)
Type of institution
Research Institute
Other institutions involved
The Centre for Innovation Studies
University of Calgary
Memorial University of Newfoundland
Cape Breton University
University of New BrunswickUniversity of PEI
Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières
University of Ottawa
Toronto Metropolitan University
University of Manitoba
University of Regina
University of Saskatchewan
Mount Royal University
University of Alberta
Team
Team leader
Peter Josty, PhD
Team members
Chad SaundersTasha Richard
Etienne St-Jean
Nathan Greidanus
Karen Hughes
David Clough
Brian Wixted
Blair Winsor
Yves Bourgeois
Kevin McKague
Marc Duhamel
Sandra Schillo
Amanda Williams
Charles Davis
Howard Lin
Geoff Gregson
Tyler Case
Reuben DomikeFunders
Government of Canada
Government of Alberta
Government of Quebec
PacifiCan
PrairiesCan
Atlantic Canada Opportunities 
Agency
Innovation Science and Economic 
Development (ISED)
Contact
p.josty@thecis.caECONOMY PROFILE112 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Chile
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.0 (11/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.8 (6/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.0 (3/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.1 (5/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.7 (10/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.0 (8/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.7 (11/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.8 (13/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.3 (17/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.2 (11/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.2 (3/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.6 (5/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.8 (14/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 42.4 12
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago68.0 2
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services74.2 7
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 66.3 3Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 31.1 4 30.2 32.0
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.3 31 5.0 5.5Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 57.6 14
To build great wealth or very high income 60.1 19
To continue a family tradition 28.0 27
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 73.6 16
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)10.2 1
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 3.0 34
Always consider social impact 82.7 13
Always consider environmental impact 83.0 11
Industry (% TEA in business services) 15.8 29Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business72.6 3
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area59.4 22
It is easy to start a business 49.9 23
Personally have the skills and knowledge 75.7 7
Fear of failure (opportunity) 40.9 30=
Entrepreneurial intentions 53.1 3Chile
 QPopulation (2022): 19.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 30.2 thousand (World Bank)
113 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Economic growth has slowed in Chile, with real GDP 
expected to fall by 1% in 2023 after two years of strong 
recovery from the pandemic. The unemployment rate 
widened to 8% and inflation reached 12% in September 
2023. This marks this highest inflation rate of the past 
28 years.
High inflation continues to adversely impact Chilean 
entrepreneurs, squeezed between rising costs and 
declining consumer spending. In the period January–
September 2023, bankruptcies in Chile were up by 18%.
CORFO, the Chilean Economic Development 
Agency, in partnership with Banco Estado, announced 
new support mechanisms to enable entrepreneurs to 
access growth finance more easily and at a lower cost.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The overall quality of the Chilean entrepreneurial 
environment, as assessed by its own national experts 
and summed up in the National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI), has been reasonably stable in 
recent years, dipping slightly in the pandemic and 
then recovering. The country’s 2023 NECI score of 4.6 is 
slightly up from 2022 (4.5), and matches pre-pandemic 
levels.
Chile’s 2023 Entrepreneurial Framework Condition 
(EFC) scores were little changed from 2022, with 
eight of 13 increasing and five declining. The largest 
increases were for Entrepreneurial Finance and for 
Government Policy: Support and Relevance, while 
the largest fall was for Commercial and Professional 
Infrastructure. As in many economies, Entrepreneurial 
Education at School continues to have the lowest 
expert quality rating, some margin behind the other 
EFCs.
National experts rated the social support for women 
entrepreneurs at 3.4, much less than sufficient and 
mid-ranking among the GEM economies (29th). 
Women entrepreneurs’ access to resources, compared 
to that of men, scored much better, both absolutely 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.and relatively, with a score of 5.3 and a GEM rank of 
15th (among 49 economies).
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Recent Global Reports have pointed to the Latin 
America & Caribbean region as an emerging global 
hotspot for entrepreneurial activity, with Chile playing 
a prominent role. GEM Adult Population Survey (APS) 
results for 2023 confirm this trend, with Guatemala, 
Ecuador, Chile and Panama having the four highest 
levels of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA). 
Chile’s rate of just over three in 10 adults starting or 
running a new business was its highest since before 
the pandemic, and the third highest in GEM 2023. 
Levels of new entrepreneurial activity were higher 
for Chilean men than women, but the difference was 
small.
Levels of Established Business Ownership were 
much lower, at 5%, implying six adults started a new 
business for every adult owning an established one. 
This suggests there are serious obstacles to sustaining 
a new business long enough for it to become 
established. It may be that the entrepreneurial 
environment makes it much easier to start a new 
business than to continue an existing one.
Entrepreneurial activity is very visible in Chile. Seven 
out of 10 adults know someone who has recently 
started a business (the third highest level in GEM) and 
an even higher proportion believe they have the skills 
and experience to start a business (second highest). 
This confidence is reflected in a relatively low fear 
of failure, with just two in five of those seeing good 
opportunities reporting that fear of failure would 
prevent them from starting a business. More than one 
in two adults in Chile intend to start a business in the 
next three years.
The most popular agreed motivation among new 
entrepreneurs was to earn a living because jobs are 
scarce. Three out of four new entrepreneurs expected 
to use more digital technology in the next six months. 
Just one in 20 of them had customers beyond Chile. 
Despite this, one in three new entrepreneurs anticipate 
employing at least another six people within the next 
five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Universidad del Desarrollo
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://www.udd.cl
Other institutions involved
Universidad Católica del Norte
Universidad Técnica Federico Santa 
María
Universidad de la FronteraTeam
Team leader
Maribel Guerrero, PhD
Team members
Claudia Yáñez-Valdés
Funders
Universidad del DesarrolloAPS vendor
Questio Estudios de Mercado y 
Opinión Limitada
Contact
gem@udd.clECONOMY PROFILE114 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)China (PRC)
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.6 (2/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
6.5 (2/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.4 (1/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.4 (2/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
4.1 (3/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.1 (6/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.7 (2/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.9 (6/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.9 (2/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.9 (5/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.0 (3/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.2 (2/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.0 (2/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 46.6 10
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago63.9 5
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services33.1 41
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 38.6 28Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 6.8 40= 7.3 6.3
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.2 39= 2.9 5.4Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 18.2 44
To build great wealth or very high income 42.0 38
To continue a family tradition 28.5 26
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 69.0 21
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.2 39
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 3.8 33
Always consider social impact 82.8 12
Always consider environmental impact 82.5 13
Industry (% TEA in business services) 8.8 33Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business56.1 21
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area69.2 7
It is easy to start a business 31.4 40
Personally have the skills and knowledge 55.8 26
Fear of failure (opportunity) 64.5 1
Entrepreneurial intentions 5.6 44China
 QPopulation (2022): 1,412.2 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 21.5 thousand (World Bank)
115 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Chinese economy was on track to meet its 2023 
growth target, reflecting strong post-COVID recovery. 
Inflation was both low and stable, within the range of 
around 2%, and with little impact on entrepreneurship.
The Chinese government continues to implement 
a comprehensive support package post-COVID, with 
positive impacts on entrepreneurs.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
China’s entrepreneurial environment was ranked 
fourth of 51 economies in 2019, but was adversely 
affected by the pandemic and is still recovering, now 
placing it 10th of 49 in 2023.
In 2023, eight of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) in China scored as sufficient or 
better, with Physical Infrastructure rated highest and 
Ease of Entry: Burdens and Regulations rated lowest, 
and hence a major concern. Both education EFC 
scores improved since 2022, but all other 11 condition 
scores were lower, with the largest fall being for 
Entrepreneurial Finance. Three of China’s EFCs were 
ranked within the top five for that condition among 
the 49 economies in GEM 2023: Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy (3rd in GEM), Government 
Policy: Support and Relevance (4th) and Ease of Entry: 
Market Dynamics (5th).
New questions asked national experts to assess the 
quality of social support for women entrepreneurs, 
and those women entrepreneurs’ access to resources 
relative to that of men. China scored 4.4 for social 
support, less than sufficient and placing it 16th, and 
an excellent 6.8 for comparative access to resources, 
second highest in GEM.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), around one 
in two adults in China reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, a high proportion but lower 
than the almost three in four one year before.
Entrepreneurship has a reasonable profile in China, 
but there is some lack of confidence. Just under 
three in five adults knew someone who had started a 
business recently, with a similar proportion considering 
themselves to have the skills and experience to start 
their own, the lowest proportion in Level C. Nearly 
seven in 10 adults saw good opportunities to start a 
business locally, but about two out of three of these 
would not start a business for fear it might fail, which 
is highest among the 45 economies in the 2023 GEM 
APS. Just under one in 20 adults not already doing so 
expected to start their own business within the next 
three years: the lowest intention rate in GEM.
The percentage of adults who were already starting 
or running a new business in China rose to nearly 
7% from 6% the year before, the lowest rate in Level 
C and sixth lowest in GEM, and a long way short of 
pre-pandemic levels. Men were slightly less likely than 
women to be starting a new business, but the gap was 
small. The Established Business Ownership rate was 
just one in 25 adults, up a little from a year earlier.
Nearly seven in 10 new entrepreneurs agreed 
with the motivation to earn a living because jobs are 
scarce, and one in three expected to use more digital 
technologies in the next six months. Nearly one in five 
of those new entrepreneurs expected to employ at 
least another six people over the next five years. Less 
than one in four were solo entrepreneurs, defined as 
those with one owner and no current employees — the 
third lowest level in GEM.
Institution
Lead institution
ShanghaiTech University
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://www.shanghaitech.edu.cn/
eng/
Team
Team leader
Guangwei Li
Team members
Yu YangXiaoyu Zhou
Wenxin Xie
Wen Zheng
Suting Hong
Xiyi Yang
Qiao Yang
Funders
ShanghaiTech UniversityAPS vendor
N/A
Contact
ligw@shanghaitech.edu.cnECONOMY PROFILE116 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Colombia
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.1 (11/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.1 (9/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.6 (9/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.4 (4/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.8 (6/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.7 (2/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.2 (6/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.6 (8/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.4 (12/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.2 (4/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.0 (10/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.4 (6/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.2 (10/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 36.8 19
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago48.4 16
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services60.7 15
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 34.4 34Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 23.6 7= 26.1 20.7
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)3.4 44 2.5 4.3Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 48.5 21
To build great wealth or very high income 53.5 29
To continue a family tradition 35.4 15
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 80.4 13
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)5.1 11
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 2.0 40
Always consider social impact 64.4 34
Always consider environmental impact 63.9 34
Industry (% TEA in business services) 3.9 42Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business72.4 4
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area60.0 21
It is easy to start a business 46.2 26
Personally have the skills and knowledge 72.2 12
Fear of failure (opportunity) 34.9 38
Entrepreneurial intentions 18.5 20Colombia
 QPopulation (2022): 51.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 20.3 thousand (World Bank)
117 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Colombian economy contracted by 0.3% in the 
third quarter of 2023, and is expected to end the year 
with GDP having grown by just 1% since 2022. Inflation, 
though decreasing for eight straight months, has 
remained persistently high, leaving entrepreneurs 
facing a negative economic outlook alongside political 
uncertainty with major reforms under way.
Colombia’s new government was implementing 
its strategic national plan (“Plan de Desarrollo, 
2022–2027”), including measures to shift the economy 
away from extractive sectors towards more sustainable, 
knowledge-based sectors and a focus on the popular 
economy.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The overall quality of Colombia’s entrepreneurial 
environment had been assessed as improving from 
2019 to 2021, but it faltered in 2022 and then fell again 
in 2023.
In 2023, only three of Colombia’s Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) were rated as sufficient 
or better (score ≥5.0), leaving 10 as insufficient, up from 
eight the previous year. Moreover, six conditions were 
scored as poor (<4.0), with, as usual, Entrepreneurial 
Education at School rated lowest of all, a score that has 
fallen even further since 2022. This was just one of 10 
conditions with a score that had declined over the year, 
including both finance conditions and both ease-of-
entry conditions, now rated 45th among the 49 
economies. The only conditions with improved scores 
were Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy and 
Physical Infrastructure.
As a result of these changes, the assessed quality of 
the overall entrepreneurial environment in Colombia 
declined from 4.5 to 4.1, much less than sufficient, and 
its rank fell from 28th to 37th. Just two years earlier 
Colombia had scored 4.7 and was ranked 23rd.
New questions in 2023 asked experts to assess 
Colombia’s social support for women entrepreneurs as 
well as their access to resources compared to that of 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.men. Colombia scored 3.4 for social support (31st), and 
better for comparative access to resources at 5.1, just 
better than sufficient with a rank of 24th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
More than one in three Colombian adults reported 
that their household income had fallen in 2023, a 
substantial proportion but much better than the seven 
in 10 just one year earlier.
Entrepreneurship has a high profile in Colombia, 
with more than seven out of 10 adults knowing 
someone who had started a business recently (fifth 
highest in GEM). A similar proportion considered 
themselves having the skills and experience to start 
their own, and six in 10 saw good opportunities to 
start a business locally. However, one in three of those 
seeing good opportunities would not start a business 
for fear it might fail. Despite this, nearly one in 10 of 
those not already starting or running a new business 
intended to do so within the next three years.
The proportion of adults who were currently starting 
or running a new business in Colombia in 2023 was 
high, at just under one in four. Women were more 
likely than men to be starting a business, with about 
five women starting a business for every four men. 
However, the share of adults owning an established 
business was very low, at about one in 30, among the 
bottom three in GEM along with Oman and Mexico. 
This implied around seven people starting a new 
business for every person owning an established one, 
suggesting that serious obstacles were preventing 
the transition from new to established business. The 
evidence of the analysis section pointed to access to 
finance possibly being one of those obstacles.
Four out of five new entrepreneurs agreed with 
the motivation to earn a living because jobs were 
scarce, and less than one in 10 had customers beyond 
Colombia. However, three in five intend to use more 
digital technology to sell their products in the next 
six months. Despite two in five of those starting or 
running a new business being solo entrepreneurs, with 
just one owner and no current employees, one in five 
new entrepreneurs expected to employ at least six 
more people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Universidad Icesi
Pontificia Universidad Javeriana de 
Cali
Universidad del Norte
Universidad EAN
Institución Universitaria AmericanaType of institution
University
Website
www.gemcolombia.org
Team
Team leader
Jana Schmutzler
Team members
Ana Carolina Martinez Romero
Juan David SolerFernando Pereira
Fabian Osorio-Tinoco
Liyis Gomez Nunez
Juan Carlos Martínez
Fernando Pereira
Jairo Orozco
Leon Dario Parra
Juan Pablo Escorcia
Funders
Universidad IcesiPontificia Universidad Javeriana de 
Cali
Universidad del Norte
Institución Universitaria Americana
Universidad EAN
APS vendor
INFO Investigaciones S.A.S.
Contact
schmutzlerj@uninorte.edu.coECONOMY PROFILE118 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Croatia
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.4 (6/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.4 (11/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.3 (13/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.3 (10/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.9 (7/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.0 (17/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.5 (15/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.7 (16/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.4 (4/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.0 (14/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.7 (17/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.2 (18/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.7 (6/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 16.8 45
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago32.4 39
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services52.0 21
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 34.9 33Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 13.1 20= 9.9 16.4
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.2 32= 3.8 6.6Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 35.5 36
To build great wealth or very high income 54.3 25
To continue a family tradition 24.7 33
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 59.1 32
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.7 19
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 24.4 5
Always consider social impact 78.9 19
Always consider environmental impact 77.8 19
Industry (% TEA in business services) 33.5 5Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business71.8 5
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area64.1 15=
It is easy to start a business 40.9 31
Personally have the skills and knowledge 73.6 9
Fear of failure (opportunity) 45.9 21
Entrepreneurial intentions 21.6 17Croatia
 QPopulation (2022): 3.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 40.4 thousand (World Bank)
119 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In 2023, Croatia’s GDP per capita was increasing 
slightly, and unemployment falling (to around 7%), 
but Croatia had one of the highest inflation rates 
in the Eurozone at just under 9%. High inflation 
was constraining consumption and reducing the 
competitiveness of Croatia’s goods and services in 
international markets.
The Croatian government was continuing to 
subsidize energy for SMEs, which may have had 
unintended consequences for their competitiveness. 
Since 2021, the Croatian Chamber of Economy has 
been surveying the readiness of Croatian SMEs for the 
green transition. The findings from 2021, when 60% of 
surveyed businesses did not see the green transition 
as a business opportunity, warned policymakers and 
financial and educational institutions of the need 
for regulatory interventions, better access to finance 
for such projects, and more educational support for 
developing new knowledge and skills.1
2023 Framework Conditions Review2
The assessed overall quality of the Croatian 
entrepreneurial environment continues to improve.. 
In 2019, Croatia had had a National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI) score of 3.6, ranking it 50th of 54 
economies. By 2022, this score had increased to 4.1, with 
Croatia ranked 39th of 51 economies. In 2023, it improved 
slightly, to a score of 4.3 and a rank of 32nd of 49.
In 2023, just two of Croatia’s Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) were scored as sufficient 
or better: Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics and Physical 
Infrastructure. However, eight EFCs improved their scores 
from 2022, usually not by much, with the largest increase 
being for Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy 
(from 3.7 to 4.3). Four EFCs had lower scores, again not by 
much. The score for Entrepreneurial Education at School 
remained unchanged, with a lowly 2.9, once more the 
worst of all Croatia’s framework scores.
1 In 2023, the GEM Croatia team in collaboration with GEM 
Slovenia (and with contributions from GEM Spain and 
GEM Brazil) published Entrepreneurship and Well-being: 
Exploring the UN Sustainable Development Goals through 
the Lenses of GEM and Other Indicators (Sustainable 
Development Goals Series; Palgrave Macmillan, 2023).
2 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.Additional questions in 2023 saw national experts 
assessing the quality of Croatia’s social support 
for women entrepreneurs, and those women 
entrepreneurs’ access to resources relative to men. For 
social support, Croatia scored just 3.4, ranking it 32nd. 
Women entrepreneurs’ relative access to resources in 
Croatia fared a little better, with a score of 4.8 and a 
rank of 34th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the Adult Population Survey (APS), less that one in 
five adults in Croatia reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, the lowest proportion of the 
45 economies in the GEM APS, as it had been the year 
before.
Entrepreneurship enjoys a high public profile in 
Croatia, with seven out of 10 adults knowing someone 
who had recently started their own business, up from 
the year before, and second highest in Level B and 
fifth highest in GEM. A bit less than four out of five 
adults considered themselves to have the skills and 
experience to be able to start their own business, 
and more than three in five saw good opportunities 
to do so locally. However, one in two of those seeing 
good opportunities would not start a business for fear 
it might fail. Despite this, nearly one in five of those 
adults not already doing so expected to start their own 
business within the next five years.
In 2023, just over one in eight adults in Croatia 
was already starting or running a new business, a 
proportion that had been more or less the same for the 
previous two years. Perhaps reflecting the lack of social 
support noted earlier, women were much less likely to 
be starting a business than men, with more than three 
new businesses started by men for every two started 
by women. While the level of Established Business 
Ownership was low, at around one in 20 adults, this 
was an improvement from the year before.
Three in five new entrepreneurs agreed with the 
motivation to earn a living because jobs are scarce, 
and nearly one in two had customers beyond Croatia. 
A similar proportion expected to use more digital 
technologies in the next six months. Around one 
in five anticipated employing another six or more 
people over the next five years, despite 45% being solo 
entrepreneurs (one owner and no employees).
Institution
Lead institution
J.J. Strossmayer University in Osijek, 
Faculty of Economics in Osijek (EFOS)
ZNANJEM DO IZVRSNOSTI
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
http://www.efos.unios.hr 
http://www.ices.hr/en/gem
Other institutions involved
CEPOR—SMEs and Entrepreneurship 
Policy Centre
http://www.cepor.hr/
gem-globalentrepreneurship-monitor/Team
Team leader
Prof. Slavica Singer, PhD
Team members
Nataša Šarlija
Sanja Pfeifer
Sunčica Oberman Peterka
Funders
Ministry of Economy and Sustainable 
DevelopmentCroatian Banking Association
CEPOR SME & Entrepreneurship 
Policy Centre
J.J. Strossmayer University in Osijek, 
Faculty of Economics
APS vendor
IPSOS d.o.o., Zagreb
Contact
singer@efos.hrECONOMY PROFILE120 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Cyprus
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.8 (15/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.8 (7/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.9 (7/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.5 (16/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (17/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.3 (14/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.4 (17/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.0 (11/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.6 (16/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.8 (16/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.8 (15/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.8 (14/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.5 (16/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 30.1 26
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago53.3 11
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services46.6 27
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 37.9 29=Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 11.0 25 7.6 14.5
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)8.2 14 6.4 9.9Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 39.7 29=
To build great wealth or very high income 85.4 3
To continue a family tradition 27.1 28
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 65.5 24
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)3.2 17
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 22.4 7
Always consider social impact 13.0 45
Always consider environmental impact 12.0 45
Industry (% TEA in business services) 25.1 17Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business66.9 10
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area39.8 39
It is easy to start a business 50.0 22
Personally have the skills and knowledge 60.5 22
Fear of failure (opportunity) 53.3 7
Entrepreneurial intentions 21.3 18Cyprus
 QPopulation (2022): 1.3 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 49.9 thousand (World Bank)
121 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Economic growth in Cyprus was expected to slow 
down to just over 2% in 2023, having reached over 5% 
the year before. Domestic consumption was up, and 
tourists were returning.
Cypriot banks charge higher interest rates on 
business loans, and offer lower rates for deposits, than 
in most Eurozone countries, so the incentive to invest 
in new ventures persists.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The assessed quality of the overall Cypriot 
entrepreneurial environment declined in the COVID-19 
pandemic, and what looked like the beginnings of 
recovery in 2022 was reversed in 2023, with the Cypriot 
National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI) score 
well below pre-pandemic levels. In 2023, the quality of 
the overall entrepreneurial environment placed Cyprus 
40th of 49 economies.
In 2022, four of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) in Cyprus were rated as sufficient 
or better, with a score of ≥5.0. By 2023, this had fallen 
to just two: Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics and 
Commercial Infrastructure. In fact, 10 of 13 conditions 
scored lower in 2023 than the previous year. Most 
reductions were small, apart from Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance, which fell from 4.7 to 3.8, and 
Ease of Entry: Burdens and Regulation, which dropped 
from 4.6 to 3.8. The only EFC to improve was Physical 
Infrastructure, which continues to have the highest 
Cypriot score, just as Entrepreneurial Education at 
School continues to have the lowest, and which has 
declined further in 2023. Possibly of most concern was 
the fall in the assessed quality of Social and Cultural 
Norms in support of entrepreneurship, which by 2023 
for Cyprus was ranked 43rd of 49 economies.
Additional questions in the National Expert 
Survey (NES) in 2023 enquired about the quality of 
social support for women, and about their access to 
resources compared to men. Cyprus rated very low for 
social support, with its score of 2.3 ranked 48th of 49 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.economies. Women entrepreneurs’ resource access 
relative to men scored better, at 5.1 and ranked 26th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), three in 10 
adults reported that their household income had fallen 
in 2023, a significant rate, but down from four in 10 a 
year earlier.
Entrepreneurship has a high public profile in Cyprus, 
with two in three adults knowing someone who had 
recently started a business, three in five considering 
themselves to have the skills and experience to start 
their own, and two in five seeing good opportunities to 
do so locally. However, more than one in two of those 
seeing good opportunities would not start a business 
for fear it might fail, the second highest in Level B and 
seventh highest in GEM. Despite this, more than one 
in five of those adults not already doing so expected to 
start their own business in the next three years.
The proportion of adults in Cyprus who were already 
starting or running a new business in 2023 was just 
over one in 10, up on the previous year and nearly back 
to pre-pandemic levels. Men were much more likely 
than women to be starting a business, with nearly two 
men starting a new business for every woman doing 
the same, perhaps reflecting the lack of social support 
for women entrepreneurs noted earlier. One in 12 
adults in Cyprus owned an established business, up on 
the level in 2022.
The motivation of new entrepreneurs in Cyprus was 
firmly focused on the economic, with more than four 
in five agreeing with the motivations to build great 
wealth or very high income, or to earn a living because 
jobs are scarce. A high two in five new entrepreneurs 
had customers beyond Cyprus, and nearly one in 
two expected to use more digital technologies in the 
next six months. Job growth expectations were high, 
with nearly three in five of those starting or running 
a new business expecting to employ another six or 
more people over the next five years, despite three in 
five being solo entrepreneurs, with one owner and no 
current employees.
Institution
Lead institution
University of Cyprus (UCY)
Centre for Entrepreneurship (C4E)
Type of institution
University
Website
http://www.ucy.ac.cy/en 
Other institutions involved
Ministry of Energy, Commerce and 
IndustryTeam
Team leader
Constantinos M. Savvides
Team members
Ariana Polyviou
Funders
Ministry of Energy Commerce and 
Industry
PwC CyprusAPS vendor
IMR LTD
Contact
savvides.constantinos@ucy.ac.cyECONOMY PROFILE122 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Ecuador
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.5 (8/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.1 (10/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.0 (7/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.2 (9/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.0 (4/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.8 (9/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.6 (12/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.4 (11/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.4 (13/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.8 (7/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.3 (6/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.1 (8/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
2.9 (11/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 51.5 5
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago67.9 3
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services56.5 17
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 36.5 32Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 32.7 1 33.4 31.9
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)24.0 1 21.1 26.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 42.7 26
To build great wealth or very high income 40.2 39
To continue a family tradition 41.0 10
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 90.8 4
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.9 27
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 1.0 45
Always consider social impact 65.1 33
Always consider environmental impact 67.6 30
Industry (% TEA in business services) 3.7 43Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business65.6 11
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area54.3 25
It is easy to start a business 46.5 25
Personally have the skills and knowledge 75.1 8
Fear of failure (opportunity) 31.7 42
Entrepreneurial intentions 57.4 2Ecuador
 QPopulation (2022): 18.0 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 12.8 thousand (World Bank)123 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Ecuadorian economy has been adversely affected 
by a number of factors in recent years, including high 
crime rates and widespread insecurity. Ecuador’s 
GDP fell in Q1 2023 after having grown by 3% in 2022. 
Ecuador’s dollarized economy shields it from much 
inflation volatility, although Ecuadorian entrepreneurs 
continue to see their costs increasing. In addition, more 
than half of all employment is estimated to be in the 
informal sector (the black economy).
Ecuador introduced new legislation in 2020 (the 
Organic Law of Entrepreneurship and Innovation, 
and the Simplified Stock Company Law), seeking 
to formalize enterprises by simplifying business 
registration and encouraging them into the formal 
economy. Since then, more than 6,000 simplified stock 
companies have been created.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Ecuador’s previous participation in the GEM National 
Expert Survey (NES) was in 2019, before the COVID-19 
pandemic and war in eastern Europe. Some limited 
comparisons will be made between 2019 and 2023.
In 2023, the quality of the Ecuadorian 
entrepreneurial environment was given an overall 
score of 3.9, according to national experts. This was 
both less than sufficient and less than the 4.2 it had 
scored in 2019. Ecuador ranked 38th of 52 economies 
for the quality of its entrepreneurial environment in 
2019. In 2023, it was 42nd of 49 economies.
Of the 13 individual Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs), 11 were assessed as lower in 2023 
than in 2019, with just two higher. The largest falls 
were for Entrepreneurial Education at School and 
Physical Infrastructure, while the largest increase was 
for Government Policy: Support and Relevance. In 
2019, four of 12 EFCs were assessed as sufficient (score 
≥5.0). By 2023 this had reduced to just two: Social and 
Cultural Norms, and Physical Infrastructure. So, while 
legislation to encourage formalization has helped, 
there remains much to do to improve the quality of the 
entrepreneurial environment in Ecuador.
Finally, new questions in 2023 asked national experts 
to assess the quality of social support to women 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.entrepreneurs, and those women’s access resources to 
compared to that of men. For social support, Ecuador 
scored 3.2 (34th of the 49 GEM economies) and for 
access to resources 5.0 (28th). So there is much to do 
here, too.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Recent Global Reports have noted the emergence of 
the Latin America & Caribbean region as a global hub 
for entrepreneurial activity. GEM Adult Population 
Survey (APS) results for 2023 are entirely consistent 
with this: the four highest levels of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) were all in this region 
(Ecuador, Guatemala, Chile and Panama), with 
Ecuador leading the way with a TEA rate of 32.7%. In 
other words, almost one in three adults in Ecuador 
was starting or running a new business in 2023, with 
women slightly more likely to be new entrepreneurs 
than men. Nor was this lead confined to new 
entrepreneurs: Ecuador also had the highest rate of 
Established Business Ownership at 24%, with the next 
highest being the Republic of Korea at 20%. So, despite 
what is clearly a difficult entrepreneurial environment, 
Ecuador had the highest levels of both new and 
established entrepreneurship of the 45 economies in 
the 2023 GEM APS.
Not surprisingly, entrepreneurship has a very 
high profile in Ecuador, with two in three adults 
knowing someone who has recently started their own 
business. Three in four adults consider themselves 
to have the skills and experience to start their own 
business, and more than a half see good opportunities 
locally. However, three in 10 of those seeing good 
opportunities would not start a business for fear it 
might fail, a proportion that sounds high but is the 
fourth lowest of the 49 economies. More than half of 
those not currently doing so expect to start a business 
in the next three years.
Given the state of the Ecuadorian economy, it is no 
surprise that half of adults reported their household 
income had fallen in 2023. Meanwhile, the motivation 
to earn a living because jobs are scarce was agreed 
by nine out of 10 new entrepreneurs. Very few (about 
one in 20) new entrepreneurs had customers beyond 
Ecuador, and fewer still (around one in 50) expected to 
employ another six people or more within the next five 
years.
Institution
Lead institution
ESPAE Graduate School of 
Management–ESPOL
Type of institution
Higher Education/University
Website
https://www.espae.edu.ecOther institutions involved
Universidad Técnica Particular de 
Loja–UTPL
https://www.utpl.edu.ec
Escuela de Negocios con Propósito–EDES
https://edes.utpl.edu.ecTeam
Team leader
Virginia Lasio
Team members
Adriana Amaya
Alicia Reyes
Xavier Ordeñana
Maria Paula Espinosa
Paul Sarango
Maria Dolores MahauadFunders
ESPAE-ESPOL AND UTPL
APS vendor
SURVEYDATA
Contact
mlasio@espol.edu.ecECONOMY PROFILE124 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Estonia
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.1 (2/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
4.9 (4/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.7 (1/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.7 (2/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
5.5 (1/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
6.2 (1/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.9 (2/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.7 (6/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.3 (5/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
5.7 (2/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.2 (4/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
7.8 (1/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.6 (2/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 27.8 29
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago34.6 35=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services37.5 39
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 28.8 39Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 13.1 20= 9.9 16.2
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.9 15 6.1 9.7Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 33.4 38
To build great wealth or very high income 39.9 40
To continue a family tradition 17.4 42
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 54.6 35
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.1 24=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 29.6 2
Always consider social impact 54.9 42
Always consider environmental impact 61.6 35
Industry (% TEA in business services) 22.9 19Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business44.3 40
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area49.5 31
It is easy to start a business 77.3 7
Personally have the skills and knowledge 46.8 41
Fear of failure (opportunity) 40.9 30=
Entrepreneurial intentions 14.9 26Estonia
 QPopulation (2022): 1.3 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 46.7 thousand (World Bank)125 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Estonia’s GDP was expected1 to have contracted by 
just over 2% in 2023, because of declining private 
consumption and falling investment, but with positive 
growth anticipated in 2024. Inflation has also been 
declining over the year, although recent price increases 
have impacted business competitiveness, especially 
in international markets. Additionally, the minimum 
wage has increased over the last three years, and will 
become 40% higher in 2024 than it was in 2021. On 
the other hand, the unemployment rate has been 
increasing in the first three quarters of 2023.
Recent government policy changes in Estonia 
include increases in businesses taxes which may affect 
how local businesses compete, and increased financial 
support for the transition to “green” businesses for 
Estonia as a whole, and for transition measures in the 
Ida-Viru region.
2023 Framework Conditions Review2
Estonia has a high-quality entrepreneurial 
environment, as measured by the GEM National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), scored by its 
own national experts at 5.9, well over sufficient and 
ranked sixth of the 49 economies in GEM 2023. In 2023, 
11 of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions 
(EFCs) were scored by Estonian national experts as 
sufficient (score ≥5.0), with the two that were less 
than sufficient (Government Policy: Support and 
Relevance, and Research and Development Transfers) 
both very close with scores of 4.9. Estonia’s highest-
rated condition was Social and Cultural Norms, with 
Physical Infrastructure rated as excellent as well (both 
>7.0). Of the 45 economies having their entrepreneurial 
environments surveyed by national experts in 2023, 
Estonia ranked second for Social and Cultural Norms 
and for Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy, 
with its lowest-ranked condition being Commercial 
and Professional Infrastructure at 16th, which was 
nonetheless still comfortably sufficient.
A new question asked by the national experts 
regarded social support for women entrepreneurs, 
and their access to resources relative to men. Estonia 
1 economy-finance.ec.europa.eu
2 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.scored well for social support (score 5.4, rank ninth) 
but poorly for relative access to resources (3.8 and 
45th). The other two Baltic states, Latvia and Lithuania, 
had similar scores, being well over sufficient for social 
support but much less than sufficient for equality 
of access to resources. In fact, Lithuania, Latvia and 
Estonia ranked 4th, 7th and 9th respectively for social 
support, but 36th, 39th and 45th respectively for 
relative access to resources.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), nearly three 
in 10 adults in Estonia reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023.
Entrepreneurship has a good public profile in 
Estonia, with more than two in five adults knowing 
someone who has started a business recently (third 
highest in Level B). Around one in two adults saw good 
opportunities to start a business locally, with a similar 
proportion considering themselves to have the skills 
and experience to start their own business (again, third 
highest in Level B). However, two out of five of those 
seeing good opportunities would not start a business 
for fear it might fail, while one in six of those not 
already doing so expected to start their own business 
within the next three years.
A reasonable 13% of adults in Estonia are currently 
starting or running new businesses, although men are 
more likely to be doing so than women, with around 
three men starting new businesses for every two 
women doing the same. This may be a reflection of the 
unequal access to resources noted earlier.
The level of Established Business Ownership stood 
at just under 8%.
More than one in two new entrepreneurs agreed 
with the motivation to earn a living because jobs were 
scarce, and one in five of their enterprises were in 
business services. More than one in three expected to 
use more digital technologies in the next six months, 
and more than half had customers beyond Estonia, a 
relatively high proportion.
Very few of those starting or running a new business 
in Estonia expected to employ another six or more 
people in the next five years, not too surprising when 
nearly a half were solo entrepreneurs (with one owner 
and no current employees), the third highest level in 
Level B and 10th highest in GEM.
Institution
Lead institution
Tallinn University of Technology and 
University of Tartu
Type of institution
University
Website
https://taltech.ee/en/
Team
Team leader
Sirje UstavTeam members
Merle Küttim
Mervi Raudsaar
Helena Rozeik
Basel Hammoda
Jelena HartšenkoFunders
Republic of Estonian Ministry 
of Economic Affairs and 
Communications
Contact
sirje.ustav@taltech.eeECONOMY PROFILE126 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)France
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.4 (4/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.3 (5/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.9 (10/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.9 (8/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.4 (16/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.1 (8/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.5 (9/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.8 (8/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
3.9 (14/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.7 (10/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.7 (10/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.4 (14/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.4 (5/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 22.3 38
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago33.4 37
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services36.0 40
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 39.3 27Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.5 20
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 17.1 16
Always consider social impact 66.6 31
Always consider environmental impact 67.1 31
Industry (% TEA in business services) 32.6 6Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 19.9 42
To build great wealth or very high income 43.7 36
To continue a family tradition 17.5 41
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 43.2 40
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 10.8 26 9.0 12.5
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.6 36 3.3 5.9Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business60.5 14=
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area50.9 29
It is easy to start a business 50.5 20
Personally have the skills and knowledge 49.5 37
Fear of failure (opportunity) 40.1 34
Entrepreneurial intentions 13.4 28France
 QPopulation (2022): 67.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 55.5 thousand (World Bank)127 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
French GDP is anticipated to have grown by around 
1% in 2023, as private consumption was restored 
and inflation fell, expected to be just under 6% for 
2023. The French economy faced several challenges, 
including geopolitical uncertainties and rising energy 
costs. Bankruptcies among SMEs were up, with small 
businesses caught between declining consumer 
purchasing power and hence lower consumer 
spending, and higher costs of debt.
The French government has acted to limit energy 
price rises for businesses. Since 1 January 2023, the 
“Single Window” has opened, allowing new businesses 
to register faster and at lower cost.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Since 2021, the overall quality of the French 
entrepreneurial environment has been rated by its 
national experts as just sufficient, with its National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI) score falling 
to 5.0 from 5.1 the year before. However, larger falls 
elsewhere meant that France moved up the NECI 
ranking, from 18th to 12th. So far, France has avoided 
joining the sizeable group of North American and 
European high-income economies with an assessed 
entrepreneurial environment that has slipped to below 
sufficient since the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2023 ,France scored as sufficient or better (score 
≥5.0) in seven of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs). As with many economies, the 
highest score was for Physical Infrastructure (6.7), and 
the lowest score was for Entrepreneurial Education 
at School (2.4). Both these scores were lower in 2023 
than in 2022, and the range between them in both 
years illustrates the variability of the quality of French 
EFCs. In fact, eight scores were lower, one the same 
and four higher in 2023, with the largest fall being 
for Government Policy: Support and Relevance and 
the largest increase for Research and Development 
Transfers. Indeed, both government policy and both 
finance EFCs scored lower, while Social and Cultural 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.Norms, and both ease-of-entry EFCs scored higher, no 
doubt helped by that “Single Window”.
Additional questions asked experts to rate the social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access 
to resources compared to men. France scored a less 
than sufficient 4.4 for social support, ranked 15th, and a 
more than sufficient 5.2 for relative access to resources, 
ranked 18th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Just over one in five adults in France reported that 
their household income had fallen in 2023, down from 
three in 10 a year earlier.
Entrepreneurship had a reasonable public profile 
in France, with three in five adults knowing someone 
who had started their own business recently (joint 
second highest in Level A), and one in two adults 
considering themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start a business themselves or seeing 
good opportunities to do so locally — all three 
proportions having changed little from the year before.
The proportion of adults who were currently starting 
or running a new business was slightly up on the 
previous year, at a little over one in 10, with men more 
likely than women to be starting a new business: about 
four men starting a new business for every three women 
doing the same. Established Business Ownership was 
low at about one in 10, but still higher than a year earlier. 
So France had two people starting a new business for 
every person owning an established one.
None of the specified motivations were especially 
popular among new entrepreneurs, with making a 
difference in the world, and earning a living because 
jobs were scarce, each agreed by little over two in 
four. New entrepreneurs were outward-looking, with 
more than one in three having customers beyond 
France. A similar proportion expected to use more 
digital technologies in the next six months. Despite 
nearly one in two of those starting or running a new 
business being solo entrepreneurs, with just one owner 
and no current employees, just over one in four new 
entrepreneurs in France expected to employ at least 
another six people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Labex Entreprendre (Entrepreneurship)
University of Montpellier
Montpellier Business School
Erasmus University Rotterdam & 
Montpellier Business SchoolType of institution
Research Institute
University
Business School
University & Business School
Website
https://labex-entreprendre.edu.
umontpellier.fr/en/home-2/
https://www.umontpellier.fr/en/
https://www.montpellier-bs.com/
international/
https://www.montpellier-bs.com/
international/Team
Team leader
Frank Lasch
Karim Messeghem
Team members
Jean-Marie Courrent
Walid Nakara
Sylvie Sammut
Roy Thurik
Olivier Torres
Sophie Casanova
Justine ValetteFunders
Labex Entreprendre
University of Montpellier
Montpellier Business School
APS vendor
Le Terrain, Paris
Contact
f.lasch@montpellier-bs.com
karim.messeghem@umontpellier.frECONOMY PROFILE128 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Germany
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.3 (9/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
4.1 (11/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.2 (15/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.4 (2/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.6 (15/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.0 (9/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.6 (8/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.8 (7/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.5 (6/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.9 (6/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.7 (13/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.1 (16/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.8 (11/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 27.1 31=
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago45.2 24
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services41.3 34
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 48.0 14Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 7.7 37 6.0 9.3
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.1 41 2.7 5.5Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 50.4 18
To build great wealth or very high income 56.3 20
To continue a family tradition 31.4 21
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 46.7 39
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.6 28=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 23.9 6
Always consider social impact 72.8 24
Always consider environmental impact 70.6 27
Industry (% TEA in business services) 31.6 7Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business36.5 44
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area41.4 38
It is easy to start a business 36.1 36
Personally have the skills and knowledge 42.2 44
Fear of failure (opportunity) 38.6 35
Entrepreneurial intentions 7.7 41Germany
 QPopulation (2022): 84.1 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 63.1 thousand (World Bank)
129 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Germany continues to suffer a lack of economic 
growth relative to most European economies, but 
also with low unemployment. This lack of growth 
reflects the shortage of skilled labour, and the budget 
difficulties of federal and regional governments. 
Inflation was low and falling and is back to 
pre-recession levels.
The federal government has introduced a new fund 
to support businesses with high growth potential 
(“gazelles”).
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Recent National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI) 
scores have suggested that the assessed quality of 
the overall German entrepreneurial environment has 
hovered on the edge of sufficient for the past few 
years, but slipped into less than sufficient in 2023 with 
a score of 4.8. In doing so, Germany has joined the 
group of high-income European and North American 
economies with an assessed overall entrepreneurial 
environment that has fallen from sufficient to less than 
sufficient since the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2023, just five of 13 German Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) scored as sufficient or 
better, with, for the third year in a row, Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs scoring highest. While this 
score dipped slightly in 2023, it was still the highest 
among Level A economies, and fourth highest in GEM. 
This was just one of 10 scores to fall in 2023, including 
both entrepreneurial finance conditions, which each 
fell below sufficient, and both government policy 
conditions. Entrepreneurial Education at School 
continues to be the lowest-rated German condition by 
far, with its score of 2.6 even lower than the year before, 
and now the next to lowest score for this condition in 
Level A. However, the scores for Physical Infrastructure 
and for Social and Cultural Norms also fell, ranking 
both of these in the bottom 10 in GEM 2023.
New questions asked national experts in Germany to 
rate the social support given to women entrepreneurs, 
and how their access to resources compared to men. 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.Social support scored 3.7, below sufficient, while 
comparative access to resources scored 5.2, better than 
sufficient.
By 2023, Germany, with its international finance 
centre in Frankfurt, was rated insufficient for both 
Entrepreneurial Finance conditions, and in the bottom 
10 for Physical Infrastructure, just like its long-standing 
competitor, the United Kingdom.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
One in four adults in Germany reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, down a little 
from 2022.
Entrepreneurship had a low public profile in 
Germany, with just over one in three adults knowing 
someone who had recently started their own business, 
and two in five considering themselves to have the 
skills and experience to be able to start their own, both 
the lowest among Level A economies, and both third 
lowest in GEM. A similar ratio of two adults in five saw 
good opportunities to start a business locally, but the 
same proportion would not start a business for fear it 
might fail. Perhaps as a result, just one in eight adults 
not already doing so in Germany intended to start their 
own business within the next three years, the lowest 
proportion in Level A and fifth lowest in GEM.
Levels of new entrepreneurial activity in Germany 
in 2023 were good, with about one in eight adults 
starting or running a new business, down a little from 
record levels the previous year. Germany had around 
three men starting a new business for every two 
women doing the same, and the Established Business 
Ownership rate was also low, at about one in 25, sixth 
lowest in GEM.
More than one in two new entrepreneurs agreed 
with the motivation to build great wealth or very high 
income, closely followed by making a difference in the 
world. Two in five new entrepreneurs expected to use 
more digital technologies in the next six months, while 
a similar proportion had customers beyond Germany. 
Job growth expectations were high, with more than 
one in five of those starting or running a new business 
expecting to employ at least six more people over the 
next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Institute of Economic and Cultural 
Geography at the Leibniz University 
Hannover
RKW Kompetenzzentrum Eschborn
Type of institution
University 
Government funded transfer 
institution
Website
https://www.iwkg.uni-hannover.de
Team
Team leader
Prof. Dr. Rolf SternbergTeam members
Dr Matthias Wallisch
Dr Natalia Gorynia-Pfeffer
Armin Baharian
Dr Florian Täube
Niels Wendt
Funders
RKW Competence CentreAPS vendor
uzbonn — Gesellschaft für empirische 
Sozialforschung und Evaluation
Contact
sternberg@wigeo.uni-hannover.deECONOMY PROFILE130 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Greece
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.0 (12/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
4.5 (5/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.8 (8/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.4 (7/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.0 (6/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.0 (16/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.8 (3/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.7 (4/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.1 (13/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.5 (5/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.6 (18/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.5 (9/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.4 (9/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 50.0 7
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago36.4 34
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services44.5 31
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 29.2 37=Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)0.8 43
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 20.0 10
Always consider social impact 71.3 26=
Always consider environmental impact 78.8 17
Industry (% TEA in business services) 22.5 20=Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 26.1 39
To build great wealth or very high income 55.6 22=
To continue a family tradition 34.6 17
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 72.3 17
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 6.7 42= 5.9 7.5
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)14.7 3 13.0 16.4Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business33.1 45
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area45.3 36
It is easy to start a business 34.7 38
Personally have the skills and knowledge 53.8 29
Fear of failure (opportunity) 53.2 9=
Entrepreneurial intentions 9.1 39Greece
 QPopulation (2022): 10.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 36.8 thousand (World Bank)131 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Real GDP in Greece was expected to have grown 
by just under 2% in 2023, due to increases in private 
consumption and in fixed capital formation. 
Unemployment was falling slowly. Inflation was 
just under 5% in the period January–October 2023, 
well down on a year earlier. Despite this reduction, 
inflation was still increasing business costs, including 
borrowing.
The Greek government had acted to offset increased 
energy costs for business to stabilize prices. An 
important mechanism to support SMEs in Greece is 
European monies through the structural funds in place 
until 2027, followed by additional resources from the 
new Resilience Fund.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The overall entrepreneurial environment in Greece 
has been improving slowly, but remains fairly weak. In 
2023 Greece had just three Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) scored as sufficient or better, the 
same as the previous year, meaning that 10 were 
considered less than sufficient. Scores were little 
changed from the previous year, with, in common 
with many economies, Physical Infrastructure 
scoring highest and Entrepreneurial Education at 
School lowest. Relative to other economies Physical 
Infrastructure was poor nonetheless, ranked at 43rd 
out of 49 GEM economies, as was Entrepreneurial 
Education Post-School.
Greece’s score for the overall quality of its 
entrepreneurial environment has been increasing 
slowly in recent years, reaching 4.6 in 2022 and 2023, 
ranking 24th in 2023 — improving but not quite 
sufficient.
In 2023, these national experts were asked new 
questions about the quality of social support for 
women entrepreneurs, and their access to resources 
compared to men. Greece scored poorly for social 
support with 2.8, much less than sufficient and ranked 
42nd of the 49 economies participating in the GEM 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.National Expert Survey (NES). For comparative access 
to resources Greece scored much better, with 5.2, 
better than sufficient and ranked 23rd.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Despite Greece’s growing economy, one in two adults 
reported that their household income had fallen in 
2023, the second highest proportion in Level B and the 
sixth highest of the 45 economies that participated in 
the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS).
Entrepreneurship had a fairly low public profile in 
Greece, with one in three adults knowing someone 
who had recently started a business (second lowest 
proportion in GEM behind Thailand), less than one 
in two adults seeing good opportunities to start a 
business and few more considering themselves to have 
the skills and experience to be able to start a business 
themselves. Of those seeing good opportunities, just 
over one in two would not start a business for fear it 
might fail. Business intentions were low, with less than 
one in 10 of those not already starting or running a 
new business expecting to do so within the next three 
years.
The percentage of adults in Greece who were 
already starting or running a new business was 
a modest 6.7%, fourth lowest in GEM jointly with 
Lithuania, but an improvement on the 4.9% of the 
previous year. The male rate was 7.6%, with just 5.9% 
of women starting or running a new business, with at 
least some of the difference perhaps attributable to the 
lack of social support for women entrepreneurs noted 
earlier. Established Business Ownership was high at 
14.7%, above that of the previous year and third highest 
in GEM behind Ecuador and the Republic of Korea.
More than seven in 10 new entrepreneurs in Greece 
agreed with the motivation to earn a living because 
jobs are scarce. Nearly one in two expected to use 
more digital technology in the next six months, and 
a relatively high two in five had customers outside 
Greece. Around three in 10 of those starting or running 
new businesses were solo entrepreneurs with one 
owner and no employees. Nevertheless, more than one 
in 10 new entrepreneurs expected to employ at least 
another six people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Foundation for Economic & Industrial 
Research (FEIR/IOBE)
Type of institution
Research Institute
Website
http://iobe.gr
Other institutions involved
Laboratory of Industrial and Energy 
Economics at the National Technical 
University of Athens Team
Team leader
Assoc. Prof. Aggelos Tsakanikas
Team members
Sofia Stavraki
Evaggelia Valavanioti
Fotini StroubakouFunders
EY Greece
APS vendor
Datapower SA
Contact
atsakanikas@iobe.grECONOMY PROFILE132 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Guatemala
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.4 (10/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
2.0 (13/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.5 (10/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
2.7 (12/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (11/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.4 (3/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.8 (10/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.5 (3/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
3.0 (14/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.3 (3/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.5 (5/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.8 (4/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
2.7 (13/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 38.8 17
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago59.3 6
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services77.1 5
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 45.6 16Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 32.4 2 28.8 36.2
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)13.2 6 9.8 16.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 80.6 2
To build great wealth or very high income 84.7 4
To continue a family tradition 52.4 6
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 89.4 6
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)8.3 3
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 1.4 44
Always consider social impact 93.2 1
Always consider environmental impact 93.0 1
Industry (% TEA in business services) 4.1 40=Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business73.0 2
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area71.8 5
It is easy to start a business 47.5 24
Personally have the skills and knowledge 78.9 4
Fear of failure (opportunity) 41.3 29
Entrepreneurial intentions 44.2 8Guatemala
 QPopulation (2022): 17.4 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 10.8 thousand (World Bank)
133 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In 2023 the Guatemalan economy was expected to 
grow by just under 4%, with inflation a little higher 
at just over 4%, and with a fiscal deficit running at 
nearly 3% of GDP. Inflation has had more impact on 
the low-paid than on entrepreneurs, given that price 
increases had been highest for food.
The political economy was dominated by 
uncertainty in 2023, because, following the 
general election, the Public Ministry had launched 
investigations into the incoming elected President 
and his political party. These were widely 
interpreted as a concerted effort to circumvent 
the peaceful transition of power. Under these 
circumstances, the entrepreneurial environment 
was not a priority.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Guatemala has an overall environment for 
entrepreneurship that is weak but stable. In 2023, 
Guatemala had four of the 13 Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) scored as sufficient 
or better, leaving nine as less than sufficient. As 
with many economies, and as it had been the year 
before, Physical Infrastructure scored the highest of 
Guatemala’s EFCs, and Entrepreneurial Education at 
School the lowest.
Despite having four sufficient EFCs, Guatemala 
also had five EFCs scored at less than three, or very 
poor, and each ranked in the bottom 10 among the 
49 economies participating in the GEM National 
Expert Survey (NES) in 2023. Guatemala’s framework 
conditions are highly variable, with a few good ones 
and far too many that are very weak.
In 2023, Guatemala had an overall entrepreneurial 
environment score of 3.8, the same as the previous two 
years.
New questions saw national experts assessing an 
economy’s social support for women entrepreneurs, 
and whether they had equal access to resources 
relative to their male counterparts. Guatemala scored 
3.1 for social support and 4.3 for relative access to 
resources, both much less than sufficient.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), two in five 
adults in Guatemala reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, a substantial proportion but 
an improvement on the three in five just one year earlier.
Guatemala is one of the Latin America & Caribbean 
economies that has given the region a reputation 
for high levels of entrepreneurial activity, and this 
continued in 2023, with the five economies with 
the highest levels of new entrepreneurial activity in 
GEM all being from this region. Guatemala had one 
in three adults starting or running a new business, 
placing it second overall behind Ecuador. Men 
were more likely to be starting a new business than 
women, but not by much. Established Business 
Ownership levels were also high at 13%, up from the 
previous year and sixth highest in GEM. These figures 
imply nearly three people starting or running a new 
business in Guatemala for every person owning an 
established one, and may point to some difficulty in 
new businesses enduring long enough to become 
established, a transition not helped by the weak 
entrepreneurial environment noted earlier.
Given these high levels of entrepreneurial activity, it 
is not surprising that entrepreneurship is high-profile 
in Guatemala, with seven in 10 adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business (second 
highest in GEM), a similar proportion seeing good 
opportunities to do so (fifth highest in GEM), and 
nearly four out of five adults considering they had the 
skills and experience to start a business themselves 
(fourth highest in GEM). Two in five of those adults 
seeing good opportunities would not start a business 
for fear it might fail. Finally, of those not already 
starting or running a business, two in five intended to 
start their own within the next three years.
Nearly nine in 10 new entrepreneurs agreed with 
the motivation to earn a living because jobs are scarce, 
closely followed by eight out of 10 agreeing with the 
motivation to build great wealth or very high income. 
Three in four new entrepreneurs expected to use more 
digital technology in the next six months, while very 
few (one in 30) had any customers outside of their own 
country. Finally, while well over half of those starting or 
running a new business were solo entrepreneurs, one 
in four new entrepreneurs expected to employ at least 
another six people over the next five years, a laudable 
ambition but unlikely when so few make it to become 
established businesses.
Institution
Lead institution
Kirzner Entrepreneurship Center at 
Francisco Marroquín University
Type of institution
University
Website
www.kec.ufm.edu
www.gem.ufm.eduTeam
Team leader
Mónica Río-Nevado de Zelaya, PhD
Team members
Carolina Uribe
Jershem David Casasola
Natalia PonceFunders
Francisco Marroquín University -UFM-
APS vendor
Khanti Consulting, SA
Contact
zelaya@ufm.eduECONOMY PROFILE134 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Hungary
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.5 (5/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.6 (9/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.0 (6/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.3 (11/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.2 (15/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.3 (13/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.9 (9/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.7 (5/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.2 (12/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.4 (7/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.4 (11/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.2 (13/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.4 (8/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 31.3 25
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago46.8 20=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services42.8 33
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 12.4 44Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.6 28=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 9.0 24
Always consider social impact 72.3 25
Always consider environmental impact 77.4 22
Industry (% TEA in business services) 25.4 16Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 45.8 23
To build great wealth or very high income 80.1 7
To continue a family tradition 30.3 23
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 89.8 5
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 9.9 31 7.1 12.7
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.4 19 5.1 9.7Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business51.0 30
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area28.2 45
It is easy to start a business 45.8 28
Personally have the skills and knowledge 38.3 45
Fear of failure (opportunity) 34.4 40
Entrepreneurial intentions 8.2 40Hungary
 QPopulation (2022): 9.7 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 41.9 thousand (World Bank)135 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Hungarian economy is expected to have 
contracted slightly in 2023, with GDP set to fall by just 
under 1%. Inflation was also falling, but likely to average 
17% over the year.1 The economy faced a number of 
challenges, including energy supply issues, inflation 
and the war next door in Ukraine. High inflation 
had forced businesses to prioritize cost-cutting over 
growth, while high finance costs were straining supply 
chains.
Banks had acceded to a government request to 
cap interest rates on working capital loans to business, 
a move expected to restore lending and promote 
growth.
2023 Framework Conditions Review2
If a score of 5.0 (midpoint) is regarded as just sufficient, 
just four of Hungary’s 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) were scored as sufficient or better, 
the same number as the year before. Between 2022 
and 2023, nine of 13 EFCs saw their scores increase, 
while two stayed the same and two increased. The 
largest fall was for Entrepreneurial Finance, with a 
score going from 5.3 (well sufficient) to 4.4 (less than 
sufficient). Both finance condition scores fell, as did 
the assessments for the three conditions most closely 
associated with government: both government policy 
conditions, as well as Government Entrepreneurial 
Programs. The largest increase was for Ease of Entry: 
Market Dynamics, which increased from 4.5 (less than 
sufficient) to 5.2 (just more than sufficient). The score 
for Social and Cultural Norms also improved slightly.
In 2023, the assessed quality of Hungary’s overall 
entrepreneurial environment had a score of 4.5, ranked 
exactly in the middle of the 49 economies in the GEM 
National Expert Survey (NES). A year earlier it had 
scored 4.7, so some deterioration in overall quality, as 
reflected in those reduced framework condition scores, 
has undone the improvement from 2021 to 2022.
National experts were also asked to assess the 
quality of social support for women entrepreneurs, 
and their access to resources relative to men. For social 
support Hungary scored 3.7 and ranked 23rd, and for 
1 European Union: www.europa.eu
2 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.relative access to resources it scored 4.4, still less than 
sufficient, and ranked 38th.
As in many economies, the Hungarian 
entrepreneurial environment would benefit from 
improvements to what continues to be by far its 
weakest framework condition: Entrepreneurial 
Education at School.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), three in 
10 Hungarian adults reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, a little higher than a year 
before but still the second lowest proportion in GEM 
(behind Iran).
Entrepreneurship had a limited public profile in 
Hungary, with one in two adults knowing someone 
who had recently started a business, less than one in 
three seeing good opportunities to start a business 
locally, and just two out of five considering that they 
had the skills and experience to start a business 
themselves, the second lowest proportion in GEM 
(behind Israel). Of those seeing good opportunities to 
start a business, a relatively low one in three would be 
deterred by fear of failure. Despite this, less than one in 
10 of those not already starting or running a business 
intended to do so within the next three years, the third 
lowest in Level B and sixth lowest in GEM.
The proportion of adults in Hungary already starting 
or running a new business was fairly stable at just 
under one in 10, as it had been the previous two years, 
but with men much more likely than women to be 
starting a new business (in the ratio of about three to 
two). Established Business Ownership was a modest 
7.4% of adults, but reversing the decline of the previous 
year.
The slowdown in the Hungarian economy was 
reflected in the nine out of 10 new entrepreneurs 
who agreed with the motivation to earn a living 
because jobs are scarce, although closely followed by 
the eight of 10 agreeing with the motivation to build 
great wealth or very high income. Two out of five new 
entrepreneurs expected to use more digital technology 
in the next six months, while a creditable three in five 
had customers outside the country. One in six new 
entrepreneurs expected to employ at least another six 
people over the next five years, while two in five were 
solo entrepreneurs (one owner, no current employees).
Institution
Lead institution
Budapest Business University
Type of institution
University
Website
https://uni-bge.hu/en
Team
Team leader
Judit Csákné FilepTeam members
László Radácsi
Áron Szennay
Zsófia Borsodi
Gigi Timár
Funders
Budapest Business University (BBU)APS vendor
TÁRKI Social Research Institute
Contact
csaknefilep.judit@uni-bge.huECONOMY PROFILE136 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)India
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
6.3 (1/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
6.6 (1/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.2 (2/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.7 (1/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
6.3 (1/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
6.6 (1/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
6.4 (1/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.4 (1/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.8 (3/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
6.5 (1/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.0 (2/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.8 (1/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
6.5 (1/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 50.6 6
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago47.2 19
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services40.0 36
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 74.4 1Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 12.0 22 9.3 14.6
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)12.4 7 6.6 18.0Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 83.8 1
To build great wealth or very high income 80.9 6
To continue a family tradition 75.2 1
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 87.8 7
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.0 42
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 1.5 43
Always consider social impact 90.9 3
Always consider environmental impact 81.6 14
Industry (% TEA in business services) 2.3 45Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business56.8 18=
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area82.5 2
It is easy to start a business 81.1 3
Personally have the skills and knowledge 81.6 3
Fear of failure (opportunity) 62.8 2
Entrepreneurial intentions 19.5 19India
 QPopulation (2022): 1,417.2 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 8.4 thousand (World Bank)
137 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Indian economy has been growing strongly. Real 
GDP is expected to have expanded by just under 8% 
in 2023. India reached a historic milestone when its 
GDP surpassed $4 trillion in November 2023. The 2023 
inflation rate was expected to be around 5%, slightly 
above the Bank of India target rate.
The government announced in 2023 the 
establishment of 30 Skill India Centres, providing 
training in skills such as coding, artificial intelligence 
and robotics. Meanwhile, the rollout of the Startup 
India Seed Fund Scheme continues, with over 1,000 
startups benefiting since the scheme was launched in 
2021.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The entrepreneurial environment in India continues 
to go from strength to strength. The National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI) score, based on 
responses from national experts, was 6.6 in 2023. This 
marks a full recovery from the depths of the pandemic, 
with that same environment having been scored at 5.0 
in 2021.
In 2022, all of India’s 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) were assessed as more than 
sufficient (score ≥5.0). By 2023, 10 of those 13 scores 
had improved, with the lowest assessment being for 
Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy (6.2). All of 
the other 12 EFCs scored higher than this, all the way 
up to a score of 7.8 for India’s Social and Cultural Norms 
in support of entrepreneurship. These EFC scores are 
a substantial achievement, particularly for a Level 
C economy, and make India one of only three GEM 
economies in 2023 in which all EFCs were assessed as 
more than sufficient (alongside the Netherlands and 
the United Arab Emirates). So India is, among these 49 
GEM economies, one of the best places in the world to 
start a business.
National experts were also asked to assess India’s 
social support for women entrepreneurship, and how 
women entrepreneurs’ access to resources compares 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.to that of men. India scored well on both counts, 
with its score of 6.6 for support and 6.7 for access to 
resources, ranking India second and third respectively 
of the 49 GEM economies.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Despite the economic growth noted earlier, one in two 
adults in India reported that their household income 
had fallen in 2023. A year earlier, this number was three 
out of four adults.
Not surprisingly, given the supportive 
entrepreneurial environment, enterprise has a 
high profile in India, with more than one in two 
adults knowing someone who had recently started 
a new business, while more than four out of five 
adults considered themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start their own enterprise (third highest 
in GEM), or saw good opportunities to start a business 
locally (second highest in GEM). However, more than 
three in five of those seeing good opportunities would 
not start a business for fear it might fail, the third 
highest proportion in GEM 2023, behind China and 
Saudi Arabia. One in five adults in India expected to 
start their own business in the next three years.
India’s level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) in 2023 was just under 12%, up slightly 
from 2022 and more than twice the level at the depths 
of the pandemic. Men were more likely to start a new 
business (male TEA = 14.6%) than women (9.3%), and 
India had a relatively high level of Established Business 
Ownership at 12.4%. So there was roughly one new 
business for every established one.
Making a difference in the world was the most 
popular motivation among new entrepreneurs, 
agreed by more than four out of five. Three out of four 
also agreed they had started a business to continue 
a family tradition. Very few new entrepreneurs had 
customers beyond India, perhaps not too surprising 
given the scale and growth of national markets, and 
two in five expected to use more digital technology 
in the next six months. Finally, job expectations were 
fairly low among India’s new entrepreneurs, with less 
than one in 10 expecting to employ at least six more 
people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Entrepreneurship Development 
Institute of India (EDII) — Ahmedabad
Type of institution
Research Institute
Website
https://www.ediindia.org
Team
Team leader
Dr. Sunil Shukla, PhDTeam members
Dr. Amit Kumar Dwivedi, PhD
Dr. Pankaj Bharti, PhD
Funders
Centre for Research in 
Entrepreneurship Education and 
Development (CREED)APS vendor
Kantar IMRB
Contact
akdwivedi@ediindia.orgECONOMY PROFILE138 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Iran
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
2.6 (13/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
2.3 (12/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
2.6 (13/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
2.5 (13/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
1.3 (14/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
2.9 (14/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.1 (13/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
2.7 (14/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.4 (11/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
2.1 (14/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
3.8 (14/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.1 (13/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
2.8 (12/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 40.6 15
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago81.4 1
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services51.0 24
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 25.7 41Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 9.8 32 8.8 10.7
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)9.8 12 5.9 13.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 37.3 34
To build great wealth or very high income 94.7 1
To continue a family tradition 18.5 40
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 66.9 23
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.0 26
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 2.4 37=
Always consider social impact 46.4 44
Always consider environmental impact 47.3 44
Industry (% TEA in business services) 22.5 20=Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business53.5 25
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area26.5 46
It is easy to start a business 13.6 46
Personally have the skills and knowledge 60.9 21
Fear of failure (opportunity) 23.8 45
Entrepreneurial intentions 17.6 22Iran
 QPopulation (2022): 88.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 18.1 thousand (World Bank)
139 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Real GDP in Iran looked set to increase by 4% in 2023, 
driven by its services and manufacturing sectors. 
Inflation had been coming down, and likely to reach 
just 40% in 2023.1
2023 Framework Conditions Review2
Iran continues to be a difficult place in which to 
start a business. The assessed quality of its overall 
entrepreneurial environment had actually improved in 
the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, but then fell, 
partially recovered in 2022, and then fell sharply again 
in 2023.
In 2023, Iran’s national experts scored all 13 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) as 
less than sufficient (score <5.0), with 10 rated as very 
poor (score <3.0). Weakest of all was Entrepreneurial 
Education at School, with its score ranked lowest of the 
49 economies, as were five other conditions. In 2023, 
Iran’s strongest condition was Ease of Entry: Market 
Dynamics, the highest-ranked condition among Level 
C economies.
All 13 conditions had lower scores in 2023 than a 
year earlier, with the largest falls being for Physical 
Infrastructure, previously a strength, and for 
Commercial and Professional Infrastructure. The 
average of the framework condition scores is labelled 
by GEM as the National Entrepreneurial Context Index 
(NECI), and these lower condition scores drove this 
down to 2.8 in 2023, ranked lowest in GEM. In 2022, the 
score was 3.6.
1 Sources: imf.org, statista.c om
2 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), just 
under two in five adults in Iran reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, a proportion 
that has been gradually shrinking from the one in 
five of 2020.
The public profile of entrepreneurship in Iran was 
very much a mixed picture. More than one in two 
adults knew someone who had recently started a 
business, but just one in four saw good opportunities 
to start a business locally, the lowest proportion in 
GEM. However, just one in four of those seeing good 
opportunities would be deterred by fear of failure, 
the second lowest in GEM, and more than three in 
five adults in Iran considered they had the skills and 
experience to start a business themselves. So in brief 
we can see good awareness of entrepreneurship, high 
confidence and low fear of failure, but low levels of 
opportunity recognition.
The proportion of adults who were already starting 
or running a new business was just under one in 10, 
third lowest in Level C, down from one in six the year 
before. Men were a little more likely than women 
to be starting a business, with around five men 
doing so for every four women. Established Business 
Ownership was reasonably high at just under one in 
10.
Building great wealth or very high income was by 
far the dominant motivation among those starting 
new businesses, agreed by more than nine in 10, 
well ahead of the two in three agreeing with to earn 
a living because jobs are scarce. One in eight new 
entrepreneurs had customers beyond Iran, and just 
over one in 10 expected to employ at least another six 
people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Faculty of Entrepreneurship, 
University of Tehran
Type of institution
University
Website
http://ent.ut.ac.ir/en
Team
Team leader
Professor Abbas BazarganTeam members
Professor Abbas Bazargan
Leyla Sarfaraz
Jahangir Yadollahi Farsi
Mohammad Reza Zali
Nezameddin Faghih
Seyed Mostafa Razavi, PhD
Asadollah Kordnaeij
Ali RezaeianFunders
Iran Labour and Social Security 
Institute (LSSI)
APS vendor
Faculty of Entrepreneurship
Contact
abazarga@ut.ac.irECONOMY PROFILE140 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Israel
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (10/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
2.2 (18/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
2.4 (18/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.4 (18/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (18/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
3.1 (18/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.1 (7/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.1 (10/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.7 (15/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
2.4 (19/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.5 (10/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
7.7 (2/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.9 (3/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 24.8 35
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago57.7 8
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services52.9 20
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 47.5 15Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 8.7 35 7.7 9.9
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)3.5 43 3.5 3.5Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 38.3 31
To build great wealth or very high income 75.0 11
To continue a family tradition 23.1 35
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 48.0 37
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.5 32=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 13.5 18
Always consider social impact 58.5 41
Always consider environmental impact 48.8 43
Industry (% TEA in business services) 36.3 2Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business68.4 8
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area47.1 35
It is easy to start a business 15.6 45
Personally have the skills and knowledge 36.9 46
Fear of failure (opportunity) 40.8 32
Entrepreneurial intentions 15.1 25Israel
 QPopulation (2022): 9.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 49.5 thousand (World Bank)
141 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In 2023, the Israeli economy was expected to grow 
by 6%, led by its high-technology sector, with an 
annual inflation rate of just under 3%. However, the 
terrible events of late autumn may have derailed these 
expectations.
Demand for goods and services in Israel was robust, 
underlining startup intensity, especially in digital, 
medical, cyber and energy ventures. Israel has a 
newly created innovation authority to initiate startup 
programs, especially in knowledge-oriented industries.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The GEM Policy Roadmap for Israel in 2022 reported 
that “the evolution of Israel’s quality of entrepreneurial 
environment is both complex and contradictory”. 
Results for 2023 continued this trend.
The Policy Roadmap for Israel 2022 noted that 12 of 
13 Israeli Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) 
had changed status from the previous year: eight 
shifting from insufficient to sufficient, and four shifting 
the other way. The scores in 2023 compared to 2022 
were only slightly less volatile, with eight changing 
from sufficient to insufficient, and three changing 
the other way. In 2022, the Social and Cultural Norms 
condition was Israel’s lowest at 2.5; in 2023, it scored 
highest at 7.7. Physical Infrastructure had been 
second lowest with a score of 3.6; by 2023, it was 
second highest with a score of 6.5. The contradictions 
continue. Entrepreneurial Education at School had 
scored highest in 2022 (7.6) but was lowest (2.1) in 2023. 
Ease of Entry: Burdens and Regulations (6.9) had been 
second highest in 2022, but by 2023 was second lowest 
(2.4).
One consequence of these shifts is that the 
assessed overall quality of the Israeli entrepreneurial 
environment, as measured by the National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), fell from 5.5 in 
2022, ranked 12th of 50 GEM economies, to just 4.1, 38th 
of 49 economies in 2023.
In 2023, the experts were asked to assess the quality 
of social support for women entrepreneurs, and their 
access to resources relative to men. Israel scored 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.reasonably well for relative access to resources (5.3, 
14th), but very poorly for social support (2.4, 47th).
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the 2023 GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), one 
in four adults in Israel reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, an improvement on the 
more than one in three a year earlier.
Entrepreneurial activity in Israel appears to be 
much more stable than its assessed Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions. Entrepreneurship was 
high-profile in Israel, although its people had little faith 
in their own abilities. More than two out of three adults 
knew someone who had recently started a business, with 
just under one in two seeing good opportunities to start 
a business locally. Of those seeing good opportunities, 
two in five would not start a business for fear it might 
fail. Just over one in three considered themselves to have 
the skills and experience to start their own business, a 
proportion little changed in recent years, and the lowest 
in the 49 economies in the GEM APS in 2023. This may 
partially explain why just one in six of those people not 
already starting or running a business expected to start 
one within the next three years.
The proportion of adults who were already starting 
or running a new business in Israel in 2023 was just 
under one in 10, little changed in recent years, and with 
men a little more likely to be starting a business than 
women, despite the lack of social support for women 
entrepreneurs noted earlier. However, the rate of adults 
owning an established business was very low, at less 
than 4%, fourth lowest in GEM 2023 just behind Oman, 
Colombia and Mexico.
Three out of four new entrepreneurs agreed with 
the motivation to build great wealth or very high 
income, and more than one in two expected to use 
more digital technology in the next six months. Just 
under two in five new entrepreneurs expected to 
employ at least another six people over the next five 
years, a high level of job expectations when more than 
three in five of those Israelis starting or running a new 
business were solo entrepreneurs, with one owner and 
no current employees, the second highest level in GEM 
behind Ecuador. Finally, new entrepreneurs were fairly 
outward-looking, with one in four having customers 
outside Israel.
Institution
Lead institution
Ira Center of Business, Technology & 
Society, Ben Gurion University of the 
Negev
 
Type of institution
University
Website
https://in.bgu.ac.il/en
Other institutions involved
Ministry of Economics and industry
Government of Israel
The Ira Foundation
Voyage Capital
M51 DigitalTeam
Team leader
Prof. Emeritus Ehud Menipaz, 
BScEng, MScEng, MBA, PhD
Team members
Prof. Eli Gimmon, PhD
Michal Ben David, MScFunders
Brandman Institute
APS vendor
Brandman Institute
Contact
ehudm@bgu.ac.ilECONOMY PROFILE142 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Italy
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (13/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
4.4 (9/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.8 (16/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.4 (14/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.5 (11/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.6 (14/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.3 (11/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.9 (15/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.0 (10/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.3 (15/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.7 (14/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.4 (13/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.5 (16/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 29.6 28
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago43.2 30
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services51.4 22
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 37.6 31Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.4 36=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 10.4 21
Always consider social impact 73.2 23
Always consider environmental impact 79.8 16
Industry (% TEA in business services) 28.1 14=Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 35.3 37
To build great wealth or very high income 56.1 21
To continue a family tradition 31.5 20
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 58.2 33
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 8.3 36 6.3 10.3
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.8 16= 4.5 11.0Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business46.3 34
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area33.7 42
It is easy to start a business 17.7 44
Personally have the skills and knowledge 50.8 34
Fear of failure (opportunity) 48.5 13
Entrepreneurial intentions 10.4 34Italy
 QPopulation (2022): 58.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 51.9 thousand (World Bank)
143 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Italian economy has been growing strongly 
in recent years. In 2023, that growth slowed to an 
expected rate of just under a 1% increase in GDP, led 
by consumer spending despite high interest rates to 
combat inflation, which was expected to fall to around 
4% in 2023.
Continued high interest rates impact funding 
options and costs for new businesses. The level of bank 
loans has been declining in Italy, due to weakening 
business demand and tightening credit controls.
Italy has an EU-funded Recovery and Resilience 
Plan (RRP), with almost €200 billion of investment 
funding earmarked for 2022–2026, contingent on 
the implementation of reforms, including to public 
administration, competition rules, education and the 
labour market.
A positive example of policy fostering 
entrepreneurial activities is legislation relating to 
innovative startups. An innovative startup is carefully 
defined, including having research and development 
expenses of at least 15% of value-added, at least 
one-third of the total workforce holding PhDs, and 
being the owner or custodian of at least one patent. 
Startups meeting these requirements benefit from a 
series of tax breaks.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The score for the overall quality of the Italian 
entrepreneurial environment has fluctuated in recent 
years: in 2023, it increased a little to 4.5 from 4.2 a year 
earlier, though still well below the 4.7 scored in 2021. 
However, despite this improvement, Italy’s overall 
entrepreneurial environment quality continues to be 
assessed as insufficient.
This is confirmed by a brief examination of individual 
Entrepreneurial Framework Condition (EFC) scores. 
As in many economies, Physical Infrastructure scored 
highest of the EFCs, with Entrepreneurial Education 
at School scoring lowest. Both had the largest 
increases of all EFCs in 2023 compared to 2022. In fact, 
11 EFCs improved their scores in 2023, with just one 
scoring lower. However, Italy still had 11 EFCs scored 
as insufficient in 2023, as it had in 2022, so an overall 
“insufficient” rating for the Italian entrepreneurial 
environment was unavoidable.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.As part of new National Expert Survey (NES) 
questions, experts assessed the quality of social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access to 
resources compared to men. Italy scored modestly on 
the former (score of 3.1 and rank of 38th) and better for 
the latter (5.2 and 20th).
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Some limited comparisons will be made between 
entrepreneurial activity levels in 2021 and 2023 (Italy 
did not participate in the GEM Adult Population Survey 
[APS] in 2022).
In the GEM APS, three in 10 Italian adults reported 
that their household income had fallen in 2023, a 
substantial proportion but lower than the two in five of 
just two years earlier.
Entrepreneurship had a fairly low profile in Italy 
in 2023, with less than one in two adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business, one 
in two considering themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start their own business, and just one 
in three seeing good opportunities to start a business 
locally, the lowest proportion in Level A and the fifth 
lowest in GEM 2023. Moreover, around a half of those 
seeing good opportunities would not start a business 
for fear it might fail, fourth highest in Level A, while 
just one in 10 of those not already starting or running 
a business expected to start one within the next three 
years, the fourth lowest in Level A.
The proportion of adults currently starting or 
running a new business was 8.3%, nearly double the 
level of two years earlier. Men were much more likely to 
be starting a new business than women, with around 
five men for every three women, perhaps reflecting 
the lack of social support noted earlier. Established 
Business Ownership also increased from 4.5% of all 
adults in 2021 to 7.8% in 2023.
Earning a living because jobs are scarce was 
the most agreed motivation, at around three out 
of five new entrepreneurs. One in two of those 
new entrepreneurs expected to use more digital 
technology in the next six months, and one in three 
had customers outside of Italy. Despite two in five 
of those adults who were starting or running a new 
business being solo entrepreneurs (with just one 
owner and no employees), around one in six expected 
to employ at least another six people over the next five 
years.
Institution
Lead institution
Universitas Mercatorum
Type of institution
University
Website
https://www.unimercatorum.it
Other institutions involved
Centre for Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship, Università 
Politecnica delle MarcheTeam
Team leader
Alessandra Micozzi
Team members
Donato Iacobucci
Francesca Micozzi
Diego D’Adda
Martina Orci
Tommaso Maria CucchiarelliFunders
Universitas Mercatorum
APS vendor
IPSOS
Contact
alessandra.micozzi@unimercatorum.itECONOMY PROFILE144 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Japan
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.2 (8/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.1 (3/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.5 (10/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.1 (12/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.2 (16/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.3 (11/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.0 (8/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.1 (19/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.5 (3/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.1 (12/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.7 (6/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.2 (17/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.5 (7/19)Japan
 QPopulation (2022): 125.1 million (World Bank)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 45.6 thousand (World Bank)
Japan did not participate in the 
2023 Adult Population Survey.145 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In 2023, real GDP in Japan was set1 to grow by just over 
1%, mainly driven by domestic demand. Inflation was 
expected to be around 3%, relatively low internationally, 
but the highest level in Japan for a decade. 
Entrepreneurs in Japan continue to face labour 
shortages, and are becoming adept at managing this.
In November 2022, the government announced a 
five year startup development plan, with a budget of 
over 10 trillion yen.
2023 Framework Conditions Review2
Having slowly improved in the three years to 2022, 
the quality of the overall entrepreneurial environment 
in Japan dipped sharply in 2023. In 2022, the quality 
of Japan’s overall entrepreneurial environment was 
scored at 5.0, or just sufficient, and ranked 21st of 50 
economies in GEM. In 2023, this score fell to 4.4, less 
than sufficient and ranked 27th of 49.
This fall was the product of reductions in scores 
for 11 of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions 
1 OECD Economic Outlook.
2 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.(EFCs), with just two scoring the same as in 2022. Both 
entrepreneurial education scores fell, as did both 
market entry conditions, but the biggest falls were for 
Commercial and Professional Infrastructure, reflecting 
the shortage of both lawyers and intermediate support 
organizations, and for Research and Development 
Transfers. Like many economies, Japan’s strongest 
framework condition is its Physical Infrastructure and 
its weakest Entrepreneurial Education at School. For 
the latter, Japan ranked 41st of the 49 GEM economies 
in 2023. However, large falls since 2023 meant 
that Japan ranked 47th for both Commercial and 
Professional Infrastructure and for Social and Cultural 
Norms, a fairly startling outcome for an economy with 
a good reputation for the quality of its financial and 
social systems.
As part of new questions, national experts assessed 
the quality of social support for women entrepreneurs, 
and their access to resources relative to men. Japan 
scored poorly on social support (2.7, 43rd) but much 
better for relative access to resources (5.2 and 20th). 
The result for social support is particularly concerning 
given that social support for entrepreneurship also 
appears to be in decline.
Japan did not participate in the GEM Adult 
Population Survey (APS) in 2023.
Institution
Lead institution
Musashi University
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://www.musashi.ac.jp/english
Other institutions involved
Nihon University
Chuo University
Toyo University
Kwansei Gakuin UniversityTeam
Team leader
President Noriyuki Takahashi
Team members
Prof. Masaaki Suzuki
Prof. Yuji Honjo
Prof. Takehiko Yasuda
Prof. Masatoshi KatoFunders
Ministry of Economy, Trade and 
Industry, METI
APS vendor
Social Survey Research Information 
Co. Ltd (SSRI)
Contact
noriyuki@cc.musashi.ac.jpECONOMY PROFILE146 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Jordan
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.3 (3/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.0 (4/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.7 (3/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.1 (3/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.9 (5/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
3.7 (12/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.7 (3/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.6 (2/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.1 (7/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.4 (2/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.9 (4/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.1 (9/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.3 (3/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 49.5 8
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago66.6 4
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services45.6 29
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 29.2 37=Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 15.7 15 10.7 19.9
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.2 21 3.2 10.6Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 20.7 40
To build great wealth or very high income 60.6 18
To continue a family tradition 26.4 29=
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 95.1 1
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.2 23
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 5.8 27
Always consider social impact 79.6 18
Always consider environmental impact 72.1 26
Industry (% TEA in business services) 7.2 36Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business56.7 20
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area47.7 33
It is easy to start a business 36.5 35
Personally have the skills and knowledge 73.2 10
Fear of failure (opportunity) 52.1 11
Entrepreneurial intentions 47.0 7Jordan
 QPopulation (2022): 11.3 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 11.0 thousand (World Bank)147 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Jordan’s GDP grew by nearly 3% in the first half of 
2023, and was expected to grow further in the second 
half. Despite the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic 
and geopolitical disputes, inflation rates in Jordan are 
among the lowest in the world.
The government of Jordan has recognized the 
importance of entrepreneurship, by appointing its first 
Minister for Digital Economy and Entrepreneurship 
in October 2020, then by developing, in collaboration 
with the World Bank and entrepreneurs, a National 
Entrepreneurship Policy (NEP), outlining the actions 
needed to build the local entrepreneurship ecosystem. 
The policy lays strong emphasis on diversifying the 
economy, promoting innovation and enhancing 
competitiveness, with a budget for 24 strategic 
projects to support startups and entrepreneurship.
Jordan last participated in GEM in 2019. Much has 
happened since then, including the pandemic and the 
geopolitical disputes noted above, so only a limited 
comparison will be made between 2019 and 2023 GEM 
Adult Population Survey (APS) and National Expert 
Survey (NES) results.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
In 2023, national experts assessed six of Jordan’s 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) as 
sufficient, leaving seven insufficient. As in many 
economies, Physical Infrastructure was the strongest, 
scoring 6.9, while Entrepreneurial Education at School 
was weakest, scoring 2.9.
Not surprisingly, many EFC scores had changed a 
great deal since 2019, with scores for both education 
conditions falling a long way, as did scores for 
Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics and Research and 
Development Transfers. Notable increases were for  
Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy and for 
Government Entrepreneurship Programs, probably on 
the back of the General Entrepreneurship Policy.
In 2023, the overall quality of the entrepreneurial 
environment in Jordan earned a National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI) score of 4.7, 
ranking Jordan 20th of the 49 economies participating 
in the National Expert Survey (NES). In 2019 that score 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.had been 5.2, placing Jordan 11th of the 54 GEM 2019 
economies.
Additional questions in the 2023 NES saw experts 
assessing the quality of social support for women 
entrepreneurs, and their access to resources relative to 
men. Jordan scored well on access to resources (score 
of 5.3, ranked 16th), but less well on social support (3.6, 
ranked 26th).
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Despite the stability of the Jordan economy, one in two 
adults in Jordan reported that their household income 
had fallen in 2023. Just one in 12 of Jordan’s adults 
reported an increase in household income in 2023, 
third lowest of the 49 GEM economies.
The profile of entrepreneurship has improved in 
Jordan since 2019. In 2023, nearly three in five adults 
knew someone who had started a business recently, 
one in two saw good opportunities to do so locally, and 
nearly three out of four considered themselves to have 
the skills and experience to start their own. In 2019, the 
corresponding proportions had been less than one 
in two, two out of five and three in five, respectively. 
However, the proportion of those seeing good 
opportunities who would not start a business for fear 
it might fail remained at just over one in two. Despite 
this, nearly one in two of those adults in Jordan in 2023 
not already starting or running a business expected to 
do so within the next three years, the seventh highest 
proportion in GEM and well up on the three in 10 with 
this expectation in 2019.
Nearly 16% of adults in Jordan were starting or 
running a new business in 2023, with men nearly 
twice as likely as women to be doing so, perhaps 
reflecting the unequal access to resources noted 
earlier. Established Business Ownership stood at 7% of 
adults, meaning more than two people starting a new 
business for every person owning an established one. 
Two in five of those starting or running a new business 
were solo entrepreneurs (one owner, no employees) 
and one in seven new entrepreneurs expected to 
employ at least another six people over the next five 
years.
Finally, making a living because jobs are scarce was 
by far the dominant motivation for those starting new 
businesses, agreed by 19 out of 20.
Institution
Lead institution
Ministry of Digital Economy and 
Entrepreneurship
Type of institution
GovernmentWebsite
https://www.modee.gov.jo/EN/Pages/
Entrepreneurship
Other institutions involved
Center for Strategic Studies
German Jordan University
Team
Team leader
Abdelkader AlbataynehTeam members
Saja Jaber
Walid Alkhatib
Nidal Alshwawreh
Funders
(GIZ) Deutsche Gesellschaft für 
Internationale Zusammenarbeit 
GmbHAPS vendor
Center for Strategic Studies
Contact
w.alkhatib@css-jordan.orgECONOMY PROFILE148 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Latvia
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.7 (4/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.4 (14/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.1 (5/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.8 (6/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.6 (4/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.4 (5/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.1 (6/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.9 (2/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.0 (14/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
5.3 (3/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.1 (5/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.0 (8/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.9 (4/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 20.6 40
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago28.5 43
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services51.2 23
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 42.5 22Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 14.3 17= 12.2 16.5
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)10.7 11 7.5 13.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 43.5 24
To build great wealth or very high income 43.5 37
To continue a family tradition 29.6 24
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 64.0 26
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)4.2 14=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 25.0 4
Always consider social impact 75.8 20
Always consider environmental impact 77.5 21
Industry (% TEA in business services) 21.8 22Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business43.9 41
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area43.0 37
It is easy to start a business 32.7 39
Personally have the skills and knowledge 52.4 33
Fear of failure (opportunity) 47.0 17
Entrepreneurial intentions 17.9 21Latvia
 QPopulation (2022): 1.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 40.0 thousand (World Bank)149 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In 2023, Latvia’s GDP was expected to fall by 0.2%, 
hampered by high inflation of 9.6%, well above 
the Eurozone average, but heading downwards. 
Entrepreneurs were cautious about growth in the face 
of this energy-price driven inflation.
Latvia has continued to increase its minimum 
wage, adding to cost burdens in labour-intensive 
sectors like retailing and restaurants. The Law on 
Support for Overcoming the Economic Consequences 
of the Sanctions and Countermeasures Applied due 
to Russia’s Military Aggression Against Ukraine, did 
exactly that, supporting entrepreneurs who had been 
adversely affected by the war.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The quality of the Latvian entrepreneurial environment 
had been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 
pandemic, and then by the war in Ukraine, but, after 
some recovery, faltered in 2023.
In 2022, Latvia had 10 of its 13 Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) scored as at least 
sufficient, but by 2023 this had fallen to seven. Some of 
the score changes were severe, with Entrepreneurial 
Education at School falling from 5.6 to 3.6, Ease 
of Entry: Market Dynamics from 7.1 to 5.0, and 
Government Policy: Support and Relevance from 4.7 to 
3.4. At the same time, Physical Infrastructure improved 
from 6.3 to 7.1.
Latvia’s National Entrepreneurial Context Index 
(NECI) score fell from 4.9 to 4.6 between 2019 and 
2020, recovered to 5.0 in 2021, improved to 5.3 in 2022 
and then fell again to 5.0 in 2023. This is quite a roller-
coaster trajectory, with Latvia ranking 20th of the GEM 
economies in 2019 and 13th in 2023.
Additional questions in 2023 asked experts to 
assess the quality of social support for women’s 
entrepreneurship, and how women entrepreneurs 
access resources compared to men. Like its Baltic 
Sea neighbours Lithuania and Estonia, Latvia scored 
relatively high for social support (score of 5.6, seventh 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.in GEM) and poor for women entrepreneurs accessing 
resources compared to men (4.4, 36th). This is an 
interesting phenomenon, worthy of further research, 
given that, for the majority of other economies, access 
to resources scored much higher than social support.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
One in five adults in Latvia reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, a significant 
proportion but down from the previous year.
The proportion of adults who were starting or 
running a new business was 16.5%, and had been 
falling slowly for the previous three years. Men were 
more likely than women to be starting a business, 
with around four new starts by men for every three by 
women. Presumably, this may be influenced by the 
unequal access to resources noted earlier. Established 
Business Ownership was at 10.7%.
Entrepreneurship has a fairly low profile in Latvia, 
with just two in five adults knowing someone who 
had recently started a business (second lowest in 
Level B, sixth lowest in GEM 2023), and around the 
same proportion seeing good opportunities to start 
a business locally. One in two adults considered 
themselves to have the skills and experience to be able 
to start their own business, but one in two of those 
adults seeing good opportunities would not start a 
business for fear it might fail. The proportion of adults 
not already doing so who expect to start a business 
in the next three years has been very consistent, at 
around one in five, in Latvia over the previous four 
years.
New entrepreneurs in Latvia are very outward-
looking, with one in two having customers beyond 
their own (relatively small) national market. A similar 
proportion expected to use more digital technologies 
in the next six months. Despite two in five of those 
starting or running a new business being solo 
entrepreneurs, with one owner and no current 
employees, job expectations were reasonably high, 
with three in 10 new entrepreneurs anticipating 
employing at least another six people over the next 
five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Stockholm School of Economics in 
Riga (SSE Riga)
Type of institution
Business School
Website
https://www.sseriga.edu
Other institutions involved
Baltic International Centre for 
Economic Policy Studies (BICEPS)Team
Team leader
Marija Krumina, MSc, PhD candidate
Team members
Anders Paalzow, PhD
Funders
Stockholm School of Economics in 
RigaAPS vendor
SKDS
Contact
marija@biceps.orgECONOMY PROFILE150 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Lithuania
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.4 (1/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.9 (1/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.3 (2/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.5 (1/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
4.7 (3/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
6.0 (2/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
5.6 (1/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.7 (1/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.9 (6/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
6.0 (1/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
8.1 (1/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.6 (4/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.8 (1/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 35.7 22
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago39.5 31
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services19.9 44
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 44.1 19Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 6.7 42= 7.2 6.1
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)14.5 4 12.7 16.5Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 42.4 27
To build great wealth or very high income 52.0 30
To continue a family tradition 22.4 36
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 83.7 9
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.1 40=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 4.9 31
Always consider social impact 60.6 37=
Always consider environmental impact 52.4 42
Industry (% TEA in business services) 30.0 11Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business70.0 7
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area61.2 20
It is easy to start a business 42.3 30
Personally have the skills and knowledge 57.1 24
Fear of failure (opportunity) 34.6 39
Entrepreneurial intentions 11.7 31Lithuania
 QPopulation (2022): 2.8 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 48.4 thousand (World Bank)151 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Strong economic growth since the pandemic looked 
set to be halted in 2023, with inflation at 11% (five 
points above the Eurozone average) and increased 
uncertainty tightening financial conditions. Lithuania 
has also managed an influx of around 80,000 refugees 
from Ukraine, around a quarter of which have found 
employment. Lithuania’s real GDP is expected 
to decrease by 0.4% in 2023 due to high inflation 
weighing on private consumption and weak global 
demand.
The latest data showed Lithuania with around 1,000 
startups in 2023, with one-third selling to consumers 
and two-thirds to other businesses. The Lithuanian 
economy was still feeling the effects of the war in 
Ukraine, with increased energy prices and broken 
supply chains in 2023. However, the government had 
developed a business support package to reduce the 
energy price shock, while the “Recovery and Resilience 
Plan” (RRP) aimed to create a fairer and growth-
oriented tax system.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Lithuania’s high-quality entrepreneurial environment 
dipped slightly when the war started in Ukraine. By 
2023, it had been restored. From 2022 to 2023, 11 of 
Lithuania’s 13 Entrepreneurial Framework Condition 
(EFC) scores had increased, with just two reduced 
(and not by much). The largest increases were for 
Entrepreneurial Education Post-School, Ease of 
Entry: Burdens and Regulations and for Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs. In both 2022 and 2023, 
Lithuania had just one EFC scored as insufficient: 
Entrepreneurial Education at School. As with many 
economies, this EFC had the lowest score and Physical 
Infrastructure had the highest, for both 2022 and 2023.
In 2021, Lithuania had a National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI) score of 6.1, placing it fifth among 
the 47 economies in GEM that year. This score fell to 5.8 
in 2022 (6th) but had recovered to 6.1 in 2023, placing it 
fourth among 49 economies.
Additional questions in the 2023 National Expert 
Survey (NES) sought an assessment of the quality 
of social support for women entrepreneurs, and for 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.their access to resources compared to men. Lithuania 
scored well for social support with 6.2, ranked fourth, 
but badly for relative access to resources with 4.5, 
ranked just 36th of the 49 economies.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Lithuania participated in the GEM Adult Population 
Survey (APS) in both 2022 and 2023. More than one in 
three adults reported that their household income had 
fallen in 2023, up sharply from the year before.
Lithuania has a high profile for entrepreneurship, 
with seven out of 10 adults knowing someone who 
had recently started their own business, third highest 
in Level B, while three out of five adults saw good 
opportunities to start a business locally, and just slightly 
fewer considered themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start their own business. Of those who 
saw good opportunities, around one in three would not 
start a business for fear it might fail, the second highest 
proportion in Level B. One in eight of those not already 
doing so expected to start a business within the next 
three years, down a little on a year earlier.
Despite the improving entrepreneurial environment, 
the percentage of adults starting or running their own 
business in Lithuania in 2023 (6.7%), was well down on 
the 12.7% of the year before. Much of this decline was 
in male entrepreneurship, falling from 16.6% to 6.1% in 
just one year, while female entrepreneurship fell from 
9.0% to 7.2%. So from having more than three men 
starting businesses for every two women doing the 
same in 2022, just one year later the rate of women 
entrepreneurs exceeded that of men, despite the 
unequal access to resources noted earlier. In the same 
period the Established Business Ownership rate almost 
doubled, to nearly 15%, the second highest in Level B 
and fourth highest in GEM 2023.
Earning a living because jobs are scarce was by 
far the dominant agreed motivation, agreed by four 
out of five new entrepreneurs. Just 15% of those 
entrepreneurs had customers outside their country, 
and only one in five was expecting to use more digital 
technology in the next six months. Despite almost half 
of those starting or running a new business being solo 
entrepreneurs, around one in five new entrepreneurs 
expected to employ another six or more people over 
the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Vilnius University Business School
Type of institution
University
Website
https://www.vm.vu.lt/en/Other institutions involved
Innovation Agency
Team
Team leader
Prof. Saule Maciukaite-Zviniene
Team members
Vytenis MockusDr. Vytautas Kuokstis
Jone Kalendiene
Aneta Slekyte-Kaminiene
Jurgita Pesliakaite
Ieva Druktene
Funders
Moody’s Lithuania
Innovation Agency
Vilnius University Business School
Ministry of Economics and InnovationAPS vendor
SQ Shopper Quality
Contact
saule.maciukaite-zviniene@vm.vu.ltECONOMY PROFILE152 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Luxembourg
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (14/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
4.3 (10/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.8 (11/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.0 (11/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
4.1 (6/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.2 (7/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.7 (7/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.6 (16/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
3.9 (15/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.4 (12/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.6 (15/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.5 (12/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.6 (14/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 27.6 30
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago57.9 7
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services57.3 16
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 48.3 13Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 9.7 33 8.7 10.6
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.2 39= 2.6 5.7Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 50.6 17
To build great wealth or very high income 46.6 34
To continue a family tradition 32.7 18=
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 47.2 38
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.4 21=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 39.7 1
Always consider social impact 73.6 22
Always consider environmental impact 75.9 23
Industry (% TEA in business services) 28.9 13Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business45.8 36
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area49.3 32
It is easy to start a business 60.4 15
Personally have the skills and knowledge 50.2 36
Fear of failure (opportunity) 47.3 16
Entrepreneurial intentions 12.6 29Luxembourg
 QPopulation (2022): 0.7 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 142.2 thousand (World Bank)
153 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Luxembourg economy grew modestly in 2022, 
with GDP up just 1.4% and inflation rising to 6.3%, 
driven by rising energy costs and supply chain issues.
In July 2023, the Luxembourg Parliament approved 
a new law introducing the principle of a fresh start 
(“Nouvelle Chance”) for individuals previously involved 
in bankruptcy, allowing them, subject to certain 
criteria, to engage in business activity.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The overall quality of the Luxembourg 
entrepreneurial environment, as summed up by 
its own national experts and as measured by the 
National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), 
deteriorated in 2023, with its NECI score falling from 
5.0 (just sufficient) to 4.6 (less than sufficient). In 
2019, Luxembourg had ranked 13th among GEM 
economies for the quality of its overall entrepreneurial 
environment. By 2021, it had fallen to 20th, and by 2023 
was down to 23rd. The fall in 2023 reflects an across-
the-board reduction in Entrepreneurial Framework 
Condition (EFC) scores, with 11 of the 13 scoring 
lower in 2023 than in 2022, and just two improving 
(Entrepreneurial Finance and Ease of Entry: Market 
Dynamics). As a result, Luxembourg’s number of 
sufficient conditions (score ≥5.0), fell from seven in 
2022 to just three in 2023. The greatest reductions 
in score were for Commercial and Professional 
Infrastructure (from 5.6 to 4.6), Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance (5.2 to 4.3), and for Social and 
Cultural Norms (from 5.4 to 4.5).
Luxembourg is one of many developed, 
high-income economies in Europe and North 
America that has seen the quality of their overall 
entrepreneurial environment fall from sufficient to less 
than sufficient since the pandemic.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Despite some deterioration in the overall 
entrepreneurial environment, levels of Total early-
stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) in Luxembourg 
remained relatively high at 9.7%, up significantly from 
2022. The male rate (10.6%) is a little higher than that 
for women (8.7%). Established Business Ownership 
rates have been fairly stable for the last few years, at a 
little under 5%.
Almost half of all adults know someone who has 
recently started a business, see good opportunities 
to do so locally, or consider themselves to have the 
skills and experience to start their own enterprise, 
proportions that are fairly constant over time. 
However, the percentage of those adults seeing good 
opportunities who would not start a business for fear 
it might fail has been drifting upwards recently, from 
42% in 2020 to 47% in 2023. The “Nouvelle Chance” 
legislation noted above may go some way to alleviate 
these fears.
Making a difference in the world was the top 
motivation for new entrepreneurs, closely followed 
by earning a living because jobs are scarce. Not 
surprisingly for a small country, many of Luxembourg’s 
new entrepreneurs are externally focused, with three in 
five having customers outside the country.
A similar proportion expect to use more digital 
technology to sell their products in the next six 
months, and one in four expect to employ at least 
six people over the next five years. This number is 
trending negative, as the previous year two in four 
had this expectation. This may have been influenced 
by the high proportion of adults (28%) reporting that 
their household income fell in 2023, the highest for 
Luxembourg since this question was introduced by 
GEM four years ago.
Institution
Lead institution
STATEC Research
Type of institution
Public Body
Website
https://statistiques.public.lu/en/
statistique-publique/statec/red.htmlTeam
Team leader
Cesare Riillo
Team members
Francesco Sarracino
Chiara Peroni
Maxime PettingerFunders
STATEC Research
STATEC (National Institute of Statistics 
and Economic Studies of the Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg)
Chambre de Commerce Luxembourg
House of Entrepreneurship
Ministère de l’ÉconomieAPS vendor
TNS ILRES
Contact
cesare.riillo@statec.etat.luECONOMY PROFILE154 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Mexico
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.5 (9/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
2.5 (11/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.1 (11/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.6 (7/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (13/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.0 (7/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.1 (8/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.9 (7/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.6 (10/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.9 (6/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.0 (9/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.1 (10/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.9 (6/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 21.0 39
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago43.3 28=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services71.7 8
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 57.3 8Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 16.8 14 16.1 17.7
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)3.2 45= 2.7 3.7Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 62.8 10
To build great wealth or very high income 55.6 22=
To continue a family tradition 55.1 4
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 81.7 11
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)5.2 10
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 4.4 32
Always consider social impact 82.6 14
Always consider environmental impact 83.7 10
Industry (% TEA in business services) 7.6 35Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business55.3 23
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area61.5 19
It is easy to start a business 50.3 21
Personally have the skills and knowledge 69.2 15=
Fear of failure (opportunity) 46.1 20
Entrepreneurial intentions 24.6 15Mexico
 QPopulation (2022): 127.5 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 21.5 thousand (World Bank)155 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Economic expansion slowed in Mexico in 2023, with the 
annual rate of GDP growth falling to around 3% in the 
first three quarters of the year. Inflation had also fallen 
to just over 4% by the end of October. Interest rates, 
however, continued to rise.
Two out of three companies in Mexico in 2023 
reported that their costs had increased, including price 
hikes for raw materials, while one in 10 reported a drop 
in sales.
In 2023, regulatory changes impacting businesses 
include new official Mexican standards for health and 
for telecommuting, increases in holiday entitlements 
and increased employer pension contributions. The 
Federal Entrepreneurship Law continued to make 
progress in Congress, aiming to promote new business 
registrations and to support potential high-impact 
entrepreneurship.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The assessed overall quality of the Mexican 
entrepreneurial environment fell sharply in the 
pandemic, with some evidence of recovery but 
then another sharp fall in 2022, and some small 
improvement in 2023.
In 2023, there were 36 Mexican participants in the 
GEM National Expert Survey (NES), with just three of 
Mexico’s Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) 
scored as sufficient (score ≥5.0), the same number 
as a year before. As in many economies, Physical 
Infrastructure was rated the strongest of Mexican 
conditions, and Entrepreneurial Education at School the 
weakest. Mexico had five conditions rated among the 
bottom 10 in GEM 2023, with Entrepreneurial Education 
at School ranked lowest at 48th out of 49, with only Iran 
scoring lower. Yet nine Mexican conditions had higher 
scores in 2023 compared to one year earlier, with the 
largest increase being for Social and Cultural Norms. 
That left four conditions with lower scores, and the 
biggest fall was for Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics.
Mexico’s score for the quality of its entrepreneurial 
environment in 2019 had been 4.7, ranked 23rd of 54 
economies. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic 
this fell to 4.1, before recovering to 4.4 in 2021, falling 
sharply to 3.8 in 2022 as energy prices rose, and then 
improving slightly to 3.9 in 2023, leaving Mexico ranked 
41st of 49 economies.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), more 
than two in five adults in Mexico reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, well down on 
the three in four of one year earlier.
Entrepreneurship has a good public profile in 
Mexico, with more than one in two adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business 
(above pre-pandemic levels), three in five seeing 
good opportunities to start a business locally, and 
a high seven out of 10 adults considering they 
had the skills and experience to start a business 
themselves. However, nearly one in two of those 
seeing good opportunities would not start a 
business for fear it might fail. The proportion of 
adults in Mexico not already doing so who expected 
to start a business within the next three years was 
one in four, up from less than one in five the year 
before.
The percentage of adults who were already 
starting or running a new business in Mexico 
increased to 17% from 13% in 2022, with men a little 
more likely than women to be starting a business, 
but the gap was small (about one percentage 
point). Mexico was one of a small number of 
economies with very low levels of Established 
Business Ownership, at one in 25 adults or less, 
Oman, Israel and the Slovak Republic being the 
others. This implied that in 2023 Mexico had more 
than four adults starting a new business for each 
one owning an established one, a finding that 
points to considerable difficulties in sustaining 
new businesses long enough for them to become 
established and reflecting the weaknesses in the 
Mexican entrepreneurial environment noted earlier. 
This correlates to the relatively large number of 
informal businesses in Mexico. As noted above, the 
Federal Government is improving mechanisms to 
formalize small business, via tax facilitation.
Four out of five new entrepreneurs in Mexico 
agreed with the motivation of earning a living 
because jobs are scarce, and seven out of 10 
expected to use more digital technologies in the 
next six months. Just one in eight had customers 
beyond their country, although three in 10 expected 
to employ at least another six people over the next 
five years, an expectation probably helped by just 
three in 10 being solo entrepreneurs with just one 
owner and no current employees.
Institution
Lead institution
Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios 
Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM)
Type of institution
University
Website
https://tec.mx/en
Team
Team leader
José Ernesto Amorós, PhDTeam members
Elvira Naranjo
Jose Manuel Aguirre
Funders
Instituto de Emprendimiento 
Eugenio Garza Lagüera (Tecnológico 
de Monterrey)APS vendor
Berumen y Asociados S.A. de C.V.
Contact
amoros@tec.mxECONOMY PROFILE156 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Morocco
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.9 (4/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.7 (3/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.6 (4/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.4 (5/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (12/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.1 (10/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.2 (7/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.3 (4/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.9 (8/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.5 (10/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.2 (7/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.5 (12/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.7 (8/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 42.3 13
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago56.3 10
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services54.2 18
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 25.0 42Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 6.3 44 4.6 8.1
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)6.8 23 3.0 10.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 18.2 43
To build great wealth or very high income 50.2 32
To continue a family tradition 25.4 32
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 80.9 12
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.1 40=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 2.2 39
Always consider social impact 62.7 36
Always consider environmental impact 68.9 28
Industry (% TEA in business services) 4.4 37=Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business45.6 37
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area70.7 6
It is easy to start a business 51.3 19
Personally have the skills and knowledge 68.2 17
Fear of failure (opportunity) 32.6 41
Entrepreneurial intentions 23.4 16Morocco
 QPopulation (2022): 37.5 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 9.5 thousand (World Bank)
157 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Real GDP in Morocco was expected to have grown 
by 3.5% in 2023, helped by a favourable harvest 
after the disastrous drought the year before. Most 
macroeconomic data are in the “green”: there is 
sustainable inflation, forecast at 5% in 2023, compared 
to almost 7% in 2022, despite an increase in interest 
rates by the Central Bank, with its attendant risk of 
limiting lending and investment opportunities for 
small businesses.
To encourage greater entrepreneurial dynamism, 
public authorities have launched a number of major 
programs to help entrepreneurs and unemployed 
young people. The new “Forsa” program in Morocco 
aims to finance and support 10,000 new entrepreneurs, 
while the “Awrach” plan is designed to secure 
temporary employment for up to 250,000 young 
Moroccans.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The quality of the overall entrepreneurial environment 
in Morocco had been slowly improving since 2020, 
though it faltered in 2023.
In Morocco, scores for eight of 13 Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) increased in 2023 
compared to 2022, while five scores decreased. Most 
changes were small, with the biggest increase for 
Government Policy: Support and Relevance. The 
largest fall was for Entrepreneurial Finance. As with 
many economies, the Entrepreneurial Education 
at School was by far the lowest score. Physical 
Infrastructure was the highest.
In 2020, Morocco ranked 39th out of 50 GEM 
economies, scoring 3.8 for the quality of its overall 
entrepreneurial environment amidst the challenges 
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. By 2022, that score 
had improved to 4.3, ranking Morocco 35th of 51 
economies. The mixture of some increases and some 
decreases in individual framework condition scores left 
that overall score unchanged in 2023. Morocco is up 
to 30th place in the overall National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI).
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.New questions in 2023 saw national experts 
assessing the quality of social support for women 
entrepreneurs, as well as their access to resources 
compared to male entrepreneurs. Morocco scored 
modestly in each, with a score of 2.9 for social support 
(ranked 41st) and a higher score of 4.9 for relative 
access to resources, ranked 29th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), four out 
of 10 adults in Morocco reported that their household 
income had declined in 2023, a high figure but lower 
than the six in 10 a year earlier and the seven in 10 in 
2021.
Just under one in two Moroccan adults knew 
someone who had recently started their own business, 
the third lowest proportion in Level C. Seven out of 
10 saw good opportunities to start a business locally, 
with only slightly less believing they had the skills and 
experience to start their own business. Of those seeing 
good opportunities, just under one in three would be 
deterred from starting their own business by the fear 
of failure, once more the third lowest in Level C. Nearly 
one in four of those intend to start their own business 
within the next three years.
The proportion of adults currently starting or 
running their own business was a modest 6.3%, up 
from 4.2% a year earlier but the lowest rate in Level C 
and third lowest in GEM 2023. Men were nearly twice 
as likely as women to be starting new businesses, 
and more than seven out of 10 of all new businesses 
were in consumer services. The Established Business 
Ownership rate was a little higher than that for new 
entrepreneurs, at 6.8%.
More than eight out of 10 new entrepreneurs agreed 
with the motivation to earn a living because jobs are 
scarce, and one in two expected to use more digital 
technologies in the next six months. Just one in 20 
new entrepreneurs had customers beyond Morocco, 
and the proportion expecting to employ at least 
another six people was fairly high at just under one in 
five. The relatively low levels of new entrepreneurship 
meant that only about one in 100 Moroccan adults was 
starting or running a new business that expected to 
employ another six people or more over the next five 
years.
Institution
Lead institution
Entrepreneurship Research 
Laboratory — Faculty of Law, 
Economics and Social Sciences, 
University of Hassan II Casablanca
Type of institution
University
Website
http://www.entrepreneurship.
univcasa.ma
Team
Team leader
Khalid El OuazzaniFatima Boutaleb, PhD
Team members
Abdellatif Komat, PhD
Salah Koubaa, PhD
Hind Malainine, PhD
Sara Yassine, PhD
Funders
University of Hassan II CasablancaAPS vendor
ClaireVision
Contact
elouazzanik@gmail.com
fboutaleb13@gmail.comECONOMY PROFILE158 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Netherlands
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.5 (3/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.1 (7/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.0 (5/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.0 (6/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
5.5 (3/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
6.3 (3/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
5.4 (3/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.4 (2/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.2 (9/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
6.2 (2/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.0 (7/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.4 (5/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.9 (3/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 21.0 39
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago33.3 38
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services28.7 43
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 43.1 21Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.1 24=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 17.8 15
Always consider social impact 60.6 37=
Always consider environmental impact 59.1 38
Industry (% TEA in business services) 23.6 18Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 47.7 22
To build great wealth or very high income 45.4 35
To continue a family tradition 25.9 31
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 38.2 42
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 13.7 19 12.2 15.2
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)6.9 22 4.7 9.2Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business60.4 16
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area67.4 12
It is easy to start a business 80.4 4
Personally have the skills and knowledge 46.0 42
Fear of failure (opportunity) 40.3 33
Entrepreneurial intentions 16.0 23Netherlands
 QPopulation (2022): 17.7 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 69.6 thousand (World Bank)
159 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Netherlands economy looks to have contracted 
in 2023, with GDP falling slightly in each of the first 
three quarters. Falling energy prices have reduced 
inflationary pressures but, given the volatility of the 
energy market, the inflation level is not considered 
stable, and even excluding energy the inflation rate is 
still considered too high.
In 2022 and 2023, the government developed an 
extensive package of measures to reform the labour 
market, including steps to reduce what is seen as 
“bogus” self-employment. Due to the other challenges 
and the fall of the government, the package was still 
awaiting approval by parliament.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The Netherlands has a consistently high-quality 
entrepreneurial environment. In the last five years, 
none of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions 
(EFCs) for the Netherlands has scored less than 5.0, the 
cut-off point for sufficiency. The lowest was a 5.0 score 
for Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics in 2021. These EFC 
scores have fluctuated, but for the Netherlands, none 
has fallen below sufficient in that period.
In 2023, six EFC scores were lower than in 2022, 
but four were higher. The largest falls were for 
Entrepreneurial Finance and for Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance. The largest increases were 
for both the entrepreneurial education EFCs (school 
and post-school levels). The 2023 EFC assessed as 
being strongest was Physical Infrastructure, while 
the weakest, but still well sufficient, was Government 
Policy: Support and Relevance.
In 2019, the Netherlands had a score for the 
quality of its overall entrepreneurial environment of 
6.0, placing it second of all the participating GEM 
economies; in 2020 and 2021 that score increased 
to 6.3, still in second place. The 2022 score fell to 5.9, 
after 12 of 13 framework scores fell from the previous 
year. The Netherlands maintained its 5.9 score in 2023, 
but now ranked seventh of the 49 economies in the 
National Expert Survey (NES).
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.New questions in 2023 saw experts assessing the 
quality of social support for women entrepreneurs 
and their access to resources compared to men. Social 
support was assessed at 4.6, less than sufficient, while 
relative access to resources was scored at 6.1, well 
sufficient and placing it sixth.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
One in five adults in the Netherlands reported that 
their household income fell in 2023, more or less the 
same proportion since this question was introduced in 
2020.
The proportion of adults who were starting or 
running a new business was 13.7%, up from the 
previous year and back above the pre-pandemic level 
of 10.4% in 2019. Men were a little more likely than 
women to be starting a new business, with five new 
businesses started by men for every four started by 
women. The level of Established Business Ownership 
was stable, at around 7% for the past three years, but 
well below the pre-pandemic level of 10.8% in 2019. So 
the Netherlands has shifted, from roughly one new 
business for every established one in 2019 to two new 
for every established in 2023.
Entrepreneurship has a fairly high profile in the 
Netherlands, with three in five adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business (third 
highest in Level A), and two out of three seeing good 
opportunities to start a business locally; but less than 
one in two adults considered they had the skills and 
experience to start their own (third lowest in Level A). 
Of those seeing good opportunities, two in five would 
not start a business for fear it might fail. Around one in 
six of those expected to start a business within the next 
three years.
Making a difference to the world was the top 
motivation, but still chosen by less than one in two 
new entrepreneurs. Less than three in 10 expected to 
use more digital technology in the next six months, 
perhaps because use was already high. Around one 
in six new entrepreneurs expected to employ at least 
another six people over the next five years, despite 
three in 10 of those starting or running a new business 
being solo entrepreneurs (i.e. having one owner and no 
current employees).
Institution
Lead institution
Panteia
Type of institution
Research Institute
Website
https://www.panteia.com
Team
Team leader
Jacqueline SnijdersTeam members
Paul van der Zeijden
Martin Clarke
Pim Zijlstra
Jan de Kok
Funders
The Ministry of Economic Affairs and 
Climate Policy of the NetherlandsAPS vendor
GDCC and PanelClix
Contact
j.snijders@panteia.nlECONOMY PROFILE160 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Norway
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.7 (16/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.5 (16/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.7 (13/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.4 (9/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.4 (12/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.8 (11/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.5 (10/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.0 (6/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.1 (13/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.4 (11/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.4 (4/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.0 (11/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.7 (13/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 11.9 46
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago48.1 17
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services47.2 25
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 28.1 40Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 6.9 39 4.9 8.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.6 18 6.9 8.2Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 37.4 33
To build great wealth or very high income 34.3 45
To continue a family tradition 19.4 39
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 25.3 45
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.6 28=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 14.8 17
Always consider social impact 50.2 43
Always consider environmental impact 65.9 32
Industry (% TEA in business services) 33.9 4Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business49.2 31
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area68.0 11
It is easy to start a business 76.7 8
Personally have the skills and knowledge 54.6 28
Fear of failure (opportunity) 43.1 25
Entrepreneurial intentions 9.3 38Norway
 QPopulation (2022): 5.5 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 114.9 thousand (World Bank)161 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Norway is experiencing an economic downturn, with 
higher inflation and increasing interest rates, and a 
weakened Norwegian currency. However, the financial 
system in Norway is resilient. Despite the heightened 
risk of vulnerabilities, the overall financial outlook 
is stable. Nevertheless, some entrepreneurs face 
difficulties due to rising costs and higher interest rates. 
At the same time, export-oriented businesses benefit 
somewhat from the weakened currency.
Norway maintains its commitment to supporting 
entrepreneurship through public policies, particularly 
focusing on youth, social initiatives and exports. Public 
spending on entrepreneurship and innovation support 
was very high during COVID-19, but is now back to 
pre-pandemic levels, hence significantly lower than 
the previous couple of years.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Norway had a National Entrepreneurial Context Index 
(NECI) score of 5.7 in 2021, placing it seventh among 
the 50 GEM participating economies. By 2023 this 
score had fallen to 4.7, less than sufficient, and placing 
it 18th of 49 economies.
Norway is among those European and North 
American economies with an entrepreneurial 
environment that has slipped from sufficient to less 
than sufficient in the short period since the pandemic. 
It is too early to discern whether this is just a reaction 
to the pandemic or marks a shift in the established 
order. In 2023, just four of the top 10 NECI economies 
were in Europe, two of which could be described as 
from the “new Europe” (Lithuania and Estonia) and 
two from the “old Europe” (the Netherlands and 
Switzerland). None were from North America.
Norway’s fall in 2023 relative to 2022 was the 
product of lower scores for 10 of its 13 Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs), with the largest 
reductions being for Entrepreneurial Education at 
School, Ease of Entry: Burdens and Regulation, and 
for Government Policy: Support and Relevance. 
Improvements were for Entrepreneurial Finance and 
Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics. These falls mean that 
Norway had just four sufficient EFCs in 2023 (in 2022, 
there were seven).
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.National experts in 2023 were asked to assess the 
quality of social support for women entrepreneurs, as 
well as their access to resources compared to men. 
Norway scored fairly high in each, with a 5.2 score for 
social support (ranked 10th) and a 5.3 score for relative 
access to resources (ranked 13th).
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), just one 
in 10 Norwegian adults reported that their household 
income had been reduced in 2023, a rate that has 
halved since 2020.
Entrepreneurship had a reasonable profile in 
Norway in 2023, with one in two adults knowing 
someone who had recently started their own business. 
Slightly more see themselves as having the skills and 
experience to start their own business, and two out of 
three see good opportunities to do so locally. Of the 
latter, some two out of five would not start a business 
for fear it might fail, a proportion that has been 
consistent in recent years. The proportion of adults 
intending to start a business in the next three years 
was just 9%, up from 5% two years earlier, but second 
lowest (behind Germany) among the 45 economies 
participating in the 2023 GEM APS.
The percentage of adults starting or running a new 
business in Norway was a modest 7%, up from 3% two 
years earlier, but lowest among Level A economies. 
Men were almost twice as likely as women to be 
starting new businesses. The level of Established 
Business Ownership was slightly higher than the level 
of new entrepreneurship, at 7.6% of adults.
Norway had the second highest proportion of new 
starts in business services in the entire GEM sample of 
economies, behind Switzerland. Making a difference in 
the world was the most commonly agreed motivation 
for new entrepreneurs, but hardly dominant, with 
just two out of five agreeing. More than a quarter 
of those new entrepreneurs had customers beyond 
Norway, and one in two intended to use more digital 
technology in the next six months.
Job expectations were reasonably high, with one 
in four new entrepreneurs expecting to employ at 
least six people over the next five years. Just over a 
quarter of those starting or running a new business 
were solo entrepreneurs (with just one owner and no 
employees), the fourth lowest level in GEM 2023.
Institution
Lead institution
Nord University Business School
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://www.nord.no
Team
Team leader
Professor Gry Agnete Alsos
Team members
Marta LindvertSølvi Solvoll
Marit Breivik-Meyer
Iselin Kristine Mauseth Steira
Funders
Innovation Norway
The Norwegian Ministry of Trade, 
Industry, and Fisheries
Nord University Business SchoolAPS vendor
Polarfakta AS
Contact
gry.a.alsos@nord.noECONOMY PROFILE162 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Oman
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.8 (3/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.9 (2/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.1 (4/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.2 (4/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
5.0 (2/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.6 (4/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.7 (4/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.4 (7/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.8 (7/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.6 (4/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.7 (7/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.8 (3/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.7 (5/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 19.0 42=
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago34.6 35=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services63.1 12
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 40.4 26Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 10.6 28 8.2 13.0
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)3.2 45= 2.5 3.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 42.2 28
To build great wealth or very high income 64.3 17
To continue a family tradition 38.3 12
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 63.8 27
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.4 36=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 5.1 30
Always consider social impact 63.8 35
Always consider environmental impact 68.2 29
Industry (% TEA in business services) 7.7 34Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business60.5 14=
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area68.7 9=
It is easy to start a business 56.8 16
Personally have the skills and knowledge 72.9 11
Fear of failure (opportunity) 38.1 36
Entrepreneurial intentions 66.0 1Oman
 QPopulation (2022): 4.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 41.7 thousand (World Bank)163 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Omani economy continues to expand. GDP 
growth in 2023 was expected to be 4%, while inflation 
was down below 2%. Growth in Oman has been led by 
the private sector, with non-public-sector employment 
rising.
The Sultanate has been investing in entrepreneurial 
readiness/skills development programs and in a 
new incubator program for startups, including 
professional support. This builds confidence among 
the adult population, as do increasing numbers of 
government programs to promote the importance of 
entrepreneurship activities in Oman.
Further, a public investment plan, the “Oman Future 
Fund”, is allocating $5.2 billion to boost emerging 
businesses. Ministerial decisions in 2023 include new 
regulations for home businesses and an improved 
regulatory framework for small businesses and 
incubators.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
After a two-year decline amid the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Oman’s entrepreneurial environment quality, 
measured by the National Entrepreneurial Context 
Index (NECI) score, is now sharply improving. During 
the pandemic, the score fell from 5.0 in 2020 to 4.1 in 
2021, with little change in 2022 at 4.2. In 2023, this score 
bounced back strongly, rising to 5.4 and placing Oman 
11th among 49 participating GEM economies. A year 
earlier, this rank was just 38th out of 50.
Each Entrepreneurial Framework Condition (EFC) 
score, as well as the overall average, typically changes 
very slowly. In 2022, just one of those conditions in 
Oman scored as sufficient: Social and Cultural Norms, 
with a score of 5.0. By 2023, all 13 conditions had 
increased their scores, with eight shifting from less 
than sufficient to more than sufficient. The biggest 
increases were for Physical Environment (up from 4.6 
to 6.7), for Social and Cultural Norms (from 5.0 to 6.8) 
and for Government Policy: Support and Relevance, up 
from 4.3 to 5.9.
In 2023 national experts were also asked to assess 
the quality of social support for women entrepreneurs, 
as well as their access to resources compared to men. 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.For social support, Oman scored an impressive 5.5, 
placing it eighth of the 49 economies, but just 2.8 for 
their relative access to resources, placing it 49th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Despite the strongly growing Oman economy, just 
under one in five adults reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023. This is well down from the 
two in five a year earlier.
Entrepreneurship has a high profile in Oman, 
with three out of five adults knowing someone who 
had recently started their own business, two out of 
three seeing good opportunities to start their own 
business (second highest in Level B), and seven out 
of 10 considering themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start their own business. Fear of failure 
is relatively low, with just two out of five who see good 
opportunities reporting that they would not start a 
business for fear it might fail. Many people are not 
deterred, with a massive two out of three of those 
adults expecting to start their own business within the 
next three years. This is the highest business intention 
rate in GEM 2023.
The proportion of adults who were already starting 
or running their own business in 2023 was just over 
one in 10. The level for men is much higher (13%) 
than for women (8.3%), implying three men start a 
new business for every two women doing the same. 
The level of Established Business Ownership is very 
modest, falling from an already low 4.1% in 2022 to 
just 3.2% in 2023. This implies Oman had more than 
three adults starting new businesses for every adult 
owning an established one, a ratio that has persisted 
over time and which may suggest new businesses face 
considerable obstacles in becoming established.
To build great wealth or very high income, or to earn 
a living because jobs are scarce, were the dominant 
motivations agreed by new entrepreneurs. Just two in 
10 new entrepreneurs had customers beyond Oman. 
This was less than the previous year. Three out of five 
expected to use more digital technology in the next 
six months, while just one in eight expected to employ 
at least six more people in the next five years. This is 
low, but not too surprising when two out of five of 
those starting new businesses in Oman in 2023 were 
solo entrepreneurs, with one owner and no current 
employees.
Institution
Lead institution
University of Nizwa
SMEs Development AuthorityType of institution
University
Organization
Website
http://www.unizwa.edu.om
https://www.sme.gov.om/
Other institutions involved
Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development AuthorityTeam
Team leader
Dr. Abdallah Mohammed Al Shukaili
Team members
Badar Al-Suleimani
Norizan Binti Mohd Kassim
Kawther Salim Al Kindi
Swadhin Kumar Mondal 
Mohammed Al Maawaly
Abrar Al AlwaiFunders
University of Nizwa
SMEs Development Authority
APS vendor
Horizons Statistical Consulting
Contact
a.alshukaili@unizwa.edu.omECONOMY PROFILE164 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Panama
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.7 (16/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.6 (10/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.3 (12/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.1 (14/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.6 (12/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.6 (9/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.4 (16/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.6 (18/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.4 (9/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.8 (15/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.6 (9/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.3 (7/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.2 (19/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 53.3 4
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago56.5 9
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services76.6 6
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 56.4 9Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 31.3 3 28.5 34.1
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.1 34= 3.9 6.2Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 68.0 7
To build great wealth or very high income 55.4 24
To continue a family tradition 51.2 7
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 78.4 14
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)8.8 2
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 5.3 29
Always consider social impact 83.7 11
Always consider environmental impact 90.2 5
Industry (% TEA in business services) 11.2 31Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business48.8 32
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area52.5 27=
It is easy to start a business 53.8 18
Personally have the skills and knowledge 76.6 5
Fear of failure (opportunity) 41.4 28
Entrepreneurial intentions 43.9 9Panama
 QPopulation (2022): 4.4 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 39.3 thousand (World Bank)
165 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Panama’s economy has been recovering strongly 
since the pandemic-induced GDP contractions, with 
growth of 5% expected in 2023, down from 11% the 
previous year. Inflation stood at just under 2%, fuelled 
by electricity and import costs.
In the past year the government introduced 
legislation (Law 256) covering electronic invoices 
to support sales, and implementing the Panama 
Electronic Invoicing System (SFEP). Meanwhile, the 
government continues to implement Law 186 of 2020, 
which established “Sociedades de Emprendimiento” to 
promote innovation and entrepreneurship.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Apart from a sharp drop during the pandemic, the 
overall expert assessment of Panama’s entrepreneurial 
environment, as summed up by the National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), has been fairly 
stable over the past five years. The score of 4.2 in 2023 
was the same as in 2020, although a touch lower than 
in 2022 (4.3).
Between 2022 and 2023 there was little change 
in Panama’s individual Entrepreneurial Framework 
Condition (EFC) scores, with six of 13 having increased 
slightly while another six fell slightly. The largest falls 
were for Government Entrepreneurial Programs 
(from 4.8 to 4.1) and for Commercial and Professional 
Infrastructure (5.4 to 4.6), while the largest increase 
was for Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics, up from 4.0 to 
5.4. Panama sits towards the lower end of Level B for 
EFCs, with eight of its scores below the group average 
and just three above.
National experts rated Panama a little higher in 
relation to women entrepreneurs, with a score of 
3.7 for social support for those entrepreneurs, well 
below sufficient but ranked 22nd of 49 participating 
economies in 2023. Access to resources compared to 
male entrepreneurs scored higher at 5.4, 12th among 
the 49 economies.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Just over a half of adults in the GEM Adult Population 
Survey (APS) in Panama reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023: a high proportion, but well 
below the more than seven out of 10 of the previous 
three years.
Entrepreneurship has a reasonably high social 
profile in Panama, with around one in two adults 
knowing someone who has recently started a business, 
or seeing good conditions to do so locally. Confidence 
is high, with three in four adults considering they 
have the skills and experience to start their own 
business. However, two in five of those seeing good 
opportunities would not start a business for fear it 
might fail, although a similar proportion expect to start 
their own business in the next three years.
Levels of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) were high, with 31.1% of adults starting or running 
their own business in 2023, a share that has been 
rising steadily over the previous two years (it was 21.8% 
in 2021 and 27.9% in 2022). Men were slightly more 
likely than women to be starting businesses. However, 
the Established Business Ownership rate was just 
under 5%, implying around six people were starting 
or running new businesses for every person owning 
an established one. This suggests there may be some 
serious obstacles that prevent new business from 
enduring long enough to become established.
To earn a living because jobs are scarce was the 
most popular motivation among those starting 
new businesses, agreed by more than three out of 
four, although making a difference in the world was 
also well supported at two in three. The other two 
motivations were also agreed by more than a half of 
those starting new businesses, suggesting that new 
entrepreneurs agreed with multiple motivations.
Just 14% of new entrepreneurs had customers 
beyond Panama, while more than three out of four 
expected to use more digital technologies in the 
next six months. A relatively high three in 10 new 
entrepreneurs expected to employ at least another six 
people over the next five years, although down from 
the four in 10 of last year.
Institution
Lead institution
City of Knowledge Foundation
Type of institution
FoundationWebsite
https://ciudaddelsaber.org/en
Other institutions involved
IESA Management School (Panama 
Campus)
Team
Team leader
Alejandro CarbonellTeam members
Carla Donalicio
Cristina Collazos
Funders
AMPYMEAPS vendor
OMG
Contact
acarbonell@cdspanama.orgECONOMY PROFILE166 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Poland
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.8 (14/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.4 (12/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.0 (14/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.4 (8/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.2 (14/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
3.1 (19/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.5 (14/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.4 (8/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.6 (1/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.2 (10/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.9 (14/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.5 (10/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.4 (10/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 47.0 9
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago31.0 40
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services43.7 32
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 37.9 29=Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 2.6 46 2.4 2.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)11.6 10 10.9 12.4Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 20.5 41
To build great wealth or very high income 39.6 41
To continue a family tradition 9.7 43
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 62.8 28
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)0.4 45
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 2.4 37=
Always consider social impact 85.9 8
Always consider environmental impact 88.9 7
Industry (% TEA in business services) 21.7 23Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business46.1 35
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area73.6 4
It is easy to start a business 83.2 2
Personally have the skills and knowledge 48.0 39
Fear of failure (opportunity) 52.3 10
Entrepreneurial intentions 2.6 45Poland
 QPopulation (2022): 37.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 43.3 thousand (World Bank)
167 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
According to European Union forecasts, Poland’s 
overall GDP growth in 2023 will amount to 0.4%. It is 
expected to rise to 2.7% in 2024, led by strong retail 
sales and improvements in the construction sector. An 
inflation rate of around 11% in 2023 is predicted to fall to 
6% in 2024.1 This has led to some business optimism, 
driven by declining supply prices and costs; however, 
those two factors remain key barriers to business 
development.
Tax reforms in 2022/2023 have reduced personal 
income tax rates, while VAT rates were reduced in 2022 
on food, fuels and some agricultural products, in order 
to combat inflation.
2023 Framework Conditions Review2
The GEM Policy Roadmap for Poland in 2022 pointed 
to declining expert-assessed Entrepreneurial 
Framework Condition (EFC) scores across the board, 
and concluded that “these results constitute a red flag 
for the Polish government and require appropriate 
strategies, radical actions and significant investment”. 
Things have improved considerably in the intervening 
period, with 12 of the 13 EFC scores increasing in 2023 
and just one staying the same.
Improvements have been high in those EFCs 
most closely associated with government, including 
Government Entrepreneurial Programs (up from 3.4 
to 4.4), and both government policy EFCs (Support 
and Relevance, up from 2.7 to 3.4, and Taxes and 
Bureaucracy, up from 3.5 to 4.0). Scores for Commercial 
and Professional Infrastructure and for Research and 
Development Transfers have also risen sharply. Many 
Polish EFCs are still less than sufficient; the country 
lags behind the Level B average on many counts. 
Improvements will hopefully reverse a downward 
drift in the quality of the overall entrepreneurial 
environment.
One result of these improvements is that the expert-
assessed quality of that entrepreneurial environment, 
as summed up by the National Entrepreneurial 
1 Forecasts from European Commission, 15 November 2023.
2 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.Context Index (NECI), improved in 2023 (4.3 in 2023 
from 3.8 in 2022). There remains much to be done, 
especially in relation to entrepreneurial education.
The social support for women entrepreneurs and 
their access to resources compared to men were given 
rather low scores by Polish national experts, at 3.1 and 
4.2 respectively. So, once more, there is still much to do.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Since the pandemic, Poland’s Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) levels have been among 
the lowest in GEM participating economies, and this 
did not change in 2023, although Poland’s TEA rate of 
2.6% was a substantial improvement from 1.6% in 2022. 
There is some way to go before Poland’s percentage 
of adults starting or running a new business is back 
to the pre-pandemic rate (5.4% in 2019). The data 
gives some hope that a corner may have been turned. 
Poland does much better for established businesses: 
nearly 12% of the adult population. This implies that 
more than four people own an established business for 
each person starting a new one, a ratio that may make 
it difficult to replenish the stock of Polish established 
businesses.
On a social level, perceptions of entrepreneurship 
in Poland are on par with many European economies. 
Despite the low level of TEA, around a half of Polish 
adults know someone who has recently started a 
business, and a similar proportion consider themselves 
to have the skills and experience to do the same. 
Meanwhile, around three in four adults see good 
opportunities to start a business, although a half of 
these would not do so for fear it might fail. Despite 
these comparable perceptions, the percentage of 
Polish adults who expect to start a business in the 
next three years is 2.6%, lowest of all GEM participating 
economies in 2023 by a substantial margin. One 
shadow over business intentions may be that nearly 
one in two adults reported their household income 
had fallen in 2023.
Of the few who were starting or running new 
businesses in Poland in 2023, earning a living because 
jobs are scarce was the dominant motivation, while 
a half expected to use more digital technology in the 
next six months.
Institution
Lead institution
Polish Agency for Enterprise 
Development (PARP)
Type of institution
Public BodyWebsite
https://en.parp.gov.pl
Other institutions involved
Polish Agency for Enterprise 
Development
University of Economics in Katowice
Team
Team leader
Anna TarnawaTeam members
Paulina Zadura
Przemysław Zbierowski
Melania Nieć
Robert Zakrzewski
Anna Skowrońska
Iwona Krysińska
Milena Gojny-ZbierowskaFunders
Ministry of Development Funds and 
Regional Policy
University of Economics in Katowice
APS vendor
Centrum Badań Marketingowych 
INDICATOR Sp. z o.o.
Contact
anna_tarnawa@parp.gov.plECONOMY PROFILE168 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Puerto Rico
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.9 (13/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.6 (8/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
2.6 (17/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.1 (13/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.7 (9/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.6 (3/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.6 (12/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.8 (15/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.3 (10/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.6 (17/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.3 (19/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.4 (6/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.9 (13/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 36.7 20
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago49.5 14
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services77.5 4
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 63.8 5Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 22.3 10 20.0 24.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)6.0 27 3.8 8.5Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 69.3 5
To build great wealth or very high income 47.3 33
To continue a family tradition 31.0 22
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 64.5 25
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)7.8 5
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 10.2 22
Always consider social impact 89.4 4
Always consider environmental impact 89.8 6
Industry (% TEA in business services) 20.9 24Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business68.0 9
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area63.3 17
It is easy to start a business 27.9 42
Personally have the skills and knowledge 71.4 13
Fear of failure (opportunity) 42.7 26=
Entrepreneurial intentions 27.0 13Puerto Rico
 QPopulation (2022): 3.2 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 40.5 thousand (World Bank)
169 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In 2023, GDP growth in Puerto Rico was expected to be 
just under 1%, while unemployment averaged 6% and 
inflation stood at just under 3%. However, the influx of 
federal funds helped to support consumer spending, 
with retail sales up nearly 4% in 2023.
The business permit procedure in Puerto Rico is 
consistently identified as hindering the entrepreneurial 
process. In June 2023, the Supreme Court ruled 
that existing permit regulations were null and void. 
The Governor quickly enacted emergency permit 
regulations and is working towards new ones.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), 
based on assessments shared by national experts, 
measures the overall entrepreneurial environment 
of an economy. Puerto Rico’s score has been steadily 
improving in recent years. In 2019, the score was at 3.2, 
much less than sufficient, and ranked 53rd of the 54 
economies in GEM. By 2023, the score increased to 4.2, 
still not sufficient but much less so, and ranked 36th of 
49 economies.
In 2023, nine of of Puerto Rico’s Entrepreneurial 
Framework Condition (EFC) scores improved and 
just one declined. Most of these changes were 
small; however, the score for Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance increased from 2.5 to 3.6, 
while Entrepreneurial Education Post-School rose 
from 4.8 to 5.6, reflecting improvements in university 
entrepreneurial programs. In 2022, just one condition 
scored as sufficient: Physical Infrastructure. In 2023, it 
was joined by Entrepreneurial Education Post-School, 
Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics, and Social and 
Cultural Norms. Commercial and Professional 
Infrastructure was the only score that declined and 
that was only marginally.
In 2022, the Department of Economic Development 
and Commerce (DDEC) unveiled PRopósito 
(“purpose”), a strategic framework which includes 
entrepreneurship as one of five pillars for Puerto 
Rico’s economic development. The plan focuses on 
strategies aimed at the creation of a more competitive 
entrepreneurial ecosystem by streamlining the 
permit process, facilitating access to capital programs, 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.incentives and other benefits to drive the creation 
and growth of local businesses. The framework also 
includes reforms on tax and employment laws. Puerto 
Rico is already a more positive environment in which 
to start and grow a new business than it was just a 
few years ago. Further improvement is necessary, 
especially in Entrepreneurial Education at School, to 
fulfil its entrepreneurial potential.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), one in three 
adults in Puerto Rico reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, a substantial proportion but 
a lot lower than the more than one in two reporting 
the same thing a year earlier.
Entrepreneurship has a reasonably high profile 
in Puerto Rico, with two in three adults knowing 
someone who has recently started a business, or who 
consider themselves to have the skills and experience 
to start one of their own. Just under two in three adults 
saw good opportunities to start a business locally, but 
three out of five of these would be deterred by the 
fear of failure. Despite this, the business intention rate 
was high, with more than one in four of those adults 
not currently doing so expecting to start their own 
business in the next three years.
The proportion of adults in Puerto Rico who were 
currently starting or running a new business was just 
over one in five, slightly up from the previous year, the 
fourth highest level in Level B and also the 10th highest 
in GEM 2023. Men were more likely than women to 
start a business, but the difference was small. The level 
of Established Business Ownership was a lot lower, at 
6%, implying more than three people were starting 
or running a new business for every person owning 
an established one. This may point to obstacles in the 
entrepreneurial pipeline preventing new business 
from enduring long enough to become established.
Making a difference in the world was the motivation 
most agreed among new entrepreneurs, with seven 
out of 10, followed by to earn a living because jobs 
are scarce. New entrepreneurs in Puerto Rico look 
outwards, with one in three having customers beyond 
their country. Three out of four new entrepreneurs 
expected to use more digital technology in the next six 
months, but job expectations were low. Less than one 
in 10 of these new entrepreneurs expected to employ 
at least six more people in the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
University of Puerto Rico School of 
Business, Rio Piedras Campus
Type of institution
Business School
Website
https://www.uprrp.edu/english/
Team
Team leader
Theany M. Calderon AbreuTeam members
Arleen Hernandez
Segundo Castro
Jairo Arturo Ayala
Funders
University of Puerto Rico School of 
Business, Rio Piedras Campus
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico
The Department of Economic 
Development and Commerce.APS vendor
Gaither International
Contact
theany.calderon1@upr.eduECONOMY PROFILE170 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Qatar
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.0 (6/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.8 (4/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.3 (3/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.9 (7/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
6.3 (2/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
6.5 (2/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
5.4 (4/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.0 (5/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.1 (5/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
5.1 (4/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.2 (6/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.7 (3/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.1 (6/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 24.1 37
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago38.7 33
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services64.6 11
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 44.2 18Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 14.3 17= 13.8 14.4
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.4 38 3.0 4.9Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 48.6 20
To build great wealth or very high income 77.4 10
To continue a family tradition 38.4 11
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 62.7 29
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)8.2 4
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 11.9 20
Always consider social impact 82.2 15
Always consider environmental impact 83.9 9
Industry (% TEA in business services) 19.0 25Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business53.1 26
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area68.7 9=
It is easy to start a business 62.4 13
Personally have the skills and knowledge 68.0 18
Fear of failure (opportunity) 42.7 26=
Entrepreneurial intentions 47.4 6Qatar
 QPopulation (2022): 2.7 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 114.6 thousand (World Bank)
171 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
In recent years, the Qatari economy has exhibited 
positive growth, with expansions in GDP and various 
sectors. Despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 
pandemic, the economy rebounded notably in 2022, 
with a real GDP growth rate of 4.3%. Notwithstanding the 
effects of inflation on businesses, efforts have been made 
to address this issue, resulting in a decreasing inflation 
trend observed in 2023, reaching 2.4% by August.
While inflation poses challenges for businesses, 
particularly those reliant on imports, the impact 
can vary across industries. Small businesses and 
startups, with limited capital reserves, may face 
greater difficulties due to rising interest rates aimed at 
countering inflationary pressures. However, the Qatari 
government has implemented programs to support 
entrepreneurs, enhance their access to capital, and 
mitigate the impact of inflation. Looking ahead, the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicts a further 
decrease in inflation rates in Qatar, potentially reaching 
around 2% by 2024.
In line with Qatar National Vision 2030, the Qatari 
government has implemented various policy changes 
and initiatives to strengthen entrepreneurship and the 
SME sector. Notable examples include encouraging 
SME participation in government procurement, and 
opening new opportunities for small businesses and 
startups. The launch of the Qatar Fintech Strategy by 
the Qatar Central Bank (QCB) has fostered innovation 
in the finance sector.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Qatar has a quality entrepreneurial environment, 
consistently ranked among the top 10 of GEM 
participating economies in the past five years. This 
quality dipped a little during the pandemic. The 
National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), based 
on insights from national experts, fell from 5.9 in 
2019 to 5.5 in 2021. The score has improved since then 
and reached 6.0 in 2023, above the corresponding 
pre-pandemic level.
Of the 13 individual Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) that make up the NECI, nine 
improved in 2023 compared to 2022, with just one 
score declining. As a result, all 13 EFCs scored as 
sufficient or better in 2023 (score ≥5.0), the only 
economy to do so besides the United Arab Emirates 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.and the Netherlands. Both finance scores improved, as 
did both government policy and both education scores.
New 2023 National Expert Survey (NES) questions 
asked about the level of social support for women 
entrepreneurs, as well as those women entrepreneurs’ 
access to the resources needed to start and run a 
business compared to that of men entrepreneurs. 
Qatar was among the top 10 in GEM 2023 for social 
support (sixth), with a score of 5.9, and 11th for relative 
access to resources with a score of 5.4.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
One in four Qatari adults in the GEM Adult Population 
Survey (APS) reported that their household income 
had fallen in 2023, a significant proportion but much 
less than the one in two of a year earlier.
Entrepreneurship has a reasonable profile in Qatar, 
with around one in two adults knowing someone 
who had recently started a business, and two out of 
three seeing good opportunities to start a business 
locally, or considering themselves to have the skills 
and experience to start their own. Just over two out 
of five of those seeing good opportunities would not 
start a business for fear it might fail, a proportion that 
has been fairly consistent in the past few years. Despite 
this, business intentions are very high, with nearly one 
in two of those adults not already doing so expecting 
to start a business in the next three years.
The proportion of adults already starting or running 
a new business in 2023 was just over 14%, up from 
nearly 11% a year earlier. Men and women were more 
or less equally likely to start a business, demonstrating 
that the new entrepreneurial activity rate among 
women has grown faster than that of men. However, 
Established Business Ownership rates remain very 
low, at just over 4%, although an improvement on the 
previous year. This implies that Qatar has more than 
three adults starting or running a new business for 
every Established Business Owner, so that established 
rate should keep increasing.
Three out of four new entrepreneurs agreed with 
the motivation to build great wealth or very high 
income. Many were outward-looking, with nearly 
three in 10 having customers beyond Qatar, perhaps 
reflecting the relatively small size of national markets. 
Two out of three new entrepreneurs expected to use 
more digital technology in the next six months. Job 
expectations were very high, with nearly three in five 
expecting to employ at least another six people over 
the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Qatar Development Bank
Type of institution
Public Body
Website
https://www.qdb.qa/en
Team
Team leader
Farha Al KuwariTeam members
Ahmed Badawy
Mohammed Abughali
Dalal Al Shammari
Funders
Qatar Development Bank (QDB)APS vendor
Wise Consultancy
Contact
falkuwari@qdb.qaECONOMY PROFILE172 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Republic of Korea
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.2 (5/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
6.4 (3/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.1 (4/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.4 (4/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
4.5 (4/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.4 (6/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
5.3 (5/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.3 (12/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
7.5 (2/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
5.0 (5/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.3 (5/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.0 (6/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.1 (7/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 34.6 23
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago51.3 12
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services11.9 45
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 6.4 45Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 10.2 30 7.7 12.7
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)19.7 2 14.9 24.3Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 3.8 45
To build great wealth or very high income 82.6 5
To continue a family tradition 5.4 45
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 28.3 44
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.6 28=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 1.9 41
Always consider social impact 66.4 32
Always consider environmental impact 58.4 40
Industry (% TEA in business services) 15.9 28Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business37.9 43
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area37.9 40
It is easy to start a business 38.7 34
Personally have the skills and knowledge 55.4 27
Fear of failure (opportunity) 26.8 44
Entrepreneurial intentions 24.9 14Republic of Korea
 QPopulation (2022): 51.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 50.1 thousand (World Bank)173 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Republic of Korea’s economy continues to grow 
slowly. GDP growth was expected to be 1.4% in 2023 
and 2.2% in 2024. Inflation was just over 3% in 2023, 
with high interest rates reducing new investment, 
including in entrepreneurship.
The government introduced “Start-up Korea” in 
2023, aiming to leapfrog Korea into a global startup 
powerhouse, backed by detailed strategies for the 
digital economy, inward and outward investment and 
private venture capital. On the outbound side, there 
are plans to extend the scope of government support 
to include overseas corporations founded by Koreans. 
On the inbound side, the visa system will be improved 
to facilitate foreigners’ startups, and a new K-Tech 
college will be established as a global startup centre.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The Republic of Korea’s National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI) score, based on perspectives 
from national experts, has been steadily improving in 
recent years, from a score of 5.1 in 2019 to 5.8 in 2023. 
This pushes Korea up the international NECI league 
table from 15th of 51 economies in 2019 to eighth of 
49 economies in 2023. As a score of ≥5 is regarded as 
sufficient, the entrepreneurial environment in the 
Korean Republic has gone from just sufficient to well 
over sufficient in that time.
Most of Korea’s Entrepreneurial Framework 
Condition (EFC) scores improved a little; 12 of the 13 
are sufficient in 2023, compared to just 10 in 2022. The 
only EFC in the Republic of Korea in 2023 assessed 
by experts as insufficient was Entrepreneurial 
Education at School (4.6 in 2022 to 4.5 in 2023). As 
in many economies, Entrepreneurial Education at 
School continues to be the worst-performing EFC 
in the Republic of Korea, and a blot on an otherwise 
encouraging entrepreneurial landscape.
The Republic of Korea scored reasonably well 
on expert assessments of the social support to 
women entrepreneurs, and on how those women 
entrepreneurs access resources compared to their 
male counterparts, scoring 4.8 and 5.8 respectively. 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.These scores place Korea 12th and ninth among the 45 
economies in 2023, mirroring Korea’s position in the 
NECI league table.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Despite the steady growth in the Republic of Korea’s 
economy, the proportion of adults reporting that 
their household income had fallen in 2023 has stayed 
stubbornly consistent, at around one in three, since 
this question was introduced to the GEM Adult 
Population Survey (APS) in 2020.
Entrepreneurship has a modest profile in the 
Republic of Korea, with two in five adults knowing 
someone who has recently started their own 
business, or who see good opportunities to start a 
business themselves. However, less than one in two 
adults consider themselves as having the skills and 
experience to start a business, while only one in four 
of those seeing good opportunities would not start a 
business for fear it might fail: the second lowest level in 
the 45 GEM economies (behind Iran). Less than one in 
four adults intend to start a business in the next three 
years.
Just over one in 10 adults in the Republic of Korea 
was starting or running a new business in 2023, a rate 
that has been falling steadily since 2021 and is well 
below the pre-pandemic level of 14.9% in 2019. Men are 
more likely than women to be new entrepreneurs, with 
around three men starting a new business for every 
two women doing the same.
The level of Established Business Ownership in the 
Republic of Korea is high, at just under one in five 
(second highest in GEM 2023). There are about two 
Established Business Owners for every person starting 
a new business.
To build great wealth or very high income is the 
dominant motivation agreed by more than eight in 
10 new entrepreneurs, with earning a living because 
jobs are scarce a distant second (just three in 10). Most 
new entrepreneurs are highly focused on Korean 
markets, with just one in 10 having customers outside 
the Republic. A similarly small proportion expected to 
use more digital technology in the next six months. 
Many more new entrepreneurs (15%) expect to employ 
at least another six people over the next five years, 
although that proportion has halved in just a year.
Institution
Lead institution
Korea Institute of Startup & 
Entrepreneurship Development 
(KISED)
Type of institution
Research Institute
Website
www.kised.or.kr
Team
Team leader
Yongmun KimTeam members
Hye-Jin Lee
Min-Wook Noh
Jae-Hawn Lee
Sang-Jun Ha
Funders
Ministry of SMEs and StartupsAPS vendor
Korea Research & Institute
Contact
csl5581@kised.or.krECONOMY PROFILE174 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Romania
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.3 (7/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.2 (16/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.3 (11/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.8 (15/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.7 (8/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.5 (10/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.8 (10/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.8 (3/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.2 (11/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.4 (6/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.2 (13/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.6 (15/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (12/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 18.6 44
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago38.8 32
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services39.6 38
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 41.5 24Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 5.9 45 4.9 6.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.1 34= 3.9 6.3Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 66.6 8
To build great wealth or very high income 77.8 9
To continue a family tradition 35.7 14
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 87.5 8
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.5 32=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 7.3 26
Always consider social impact 84.0 10
Always consider environmental impact 82.7 12
Industry (% TEA in business services) 13.6 30Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business45.5 38
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area55.7 24
It is easy to start a business 36.0 37
Personally have the skills and knowledge 52.6 32
Fear of failure (opportunity) 58.1 5
Entrepreneurial intentions 5.8 43Romania
 QPopulation (2022): 19.0 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 41.9 thousand (World Bank)175 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Romanian GDP growth looks set to have fallen to just 
over 1% in 2023, although capital inflows from the 
European Union funds are likely to boost growth in the 
near future. Inflation fell to 8%, with price pressures 
still challenging entrepreneurs. However, an increasing 
budget deficit led to new fiscal measures in the 
second half of 2023.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Romania’s overall entrepreneurial environment has 
been improving in recent years. In 2023, eight of 
its 13 Entrepreneurial Framework Condition (EFC) 
scores increased, while four fell. Three have risen for 
two consecutive years: Government Entrepreneurial 
Programs, Research and Development Transfers, and 
Commercial and Professional Infrastructure. Like 
in many economies, the Romanian entrepreneurial 
environment scored highest for its Physical 
Infrastructure (6.2) and lowest for Entrepreneurial 
Education at School (2.7).
In 2021, Romania had a National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI) score of 4.0 and was ranked 40th. 
By 2022, it had risen to 4.2 (36th) and reached 4.3 in 
2023, placing Romania 31st among the 49 economies.
National experts assessed the quality of social 
support to women entrepreneurs and how their access 
to resources compared to men (new questions for 
2023). These scores for Romania came in at 3.4 for social 
support (30th) and 4.5 for resources (37th), so there is 
much work to be done here.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In 2023, two out of 10 adults in Romania reported that 
their household income had fallen, down from three in 
10 a year earlier.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.The percentage of adults who were starting or 
running a new business had been falling since 2021, 
and was just 5.9% recently, ranking Romania 38th of 
the 46 economies. Men were more likely than women 
to be new entrepreneurs (male rate 6.8%, female 
rate 4.9%). Established Business Ownership was also 
relatively low, at 5.1%, meaning just over one person 
started a new business for each running an established 
one.
The entrepreneurial profile in 2023 was fairly muted, 
with just under one in two adults knowing someone 
who had started a business recently. Just over one 
in two considered themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start their own business, with a similar 
proportion seeing good opportunities to start a 
business locally. However, three in five of those seeing 
good opportunities would not start a business for fear 
it might fail, the second highest proportion in Level B 
and fifth highest in GEM. One consequence was that 
entrepreneurial intentions were low, with just one in 
20 adults not already doing so expecting to start a 
business in the next three years, about half of the level 
two years earlier and third lowest in GEM 2023 behind 
Poland and China.
Nine out of 10 new entrepreneurs agreed with the 
motivation to earn a living because jobs are scarce. 
Eight out of 10 agreed with the motivation to build 
great wealth or very high income. Just one in eight 
new entrepreneurs had customers outside of their 
country, while two in five expected to use more digital 
technology in the next six months.
A high rate of one in four new entrepreneurs 
expected to add at least another six jobs in the next 
five years. This is a strong number considering that 
more than two out of five are solo entrepreneurs. 
However, because the proportion of adults starting 
or running a new business was low, this high rate 
translates into less than 2% of adults in Romania being 
both new entrepreneurs and expecting to employ 
another six people or more over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Faculty of Economics and Business 
Administration, Babes-Bolyai 
University
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://econ.ubbcluj.ro/
Team
Team leader
Szabó Tünde Petra, PhD
Team members
Dézsi-Benyovszki Annamária, PhD
Bálint CsabaGyörfy Lehel-Zoltán, PhD
Szász Levente, PhD
Benedek Botond, PhD
Csala Dénes, PhD
Funders
Faculty of Economics and Business 
Administration, Babes-Bolyai 
UniversityAPS vendor
Metro Media Transilvania
Contact
petra.szabo@econ.ubbcluj.roECONOMY PROFILE176 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Saudi Arabia
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
5.6 (2/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
6.6 (2/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
6.4 (2/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.4 (3/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
4.4 (5/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.5 (5/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
5.1 (6/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.3 (3/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
7.2 (3/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
6.0 (3/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
8.0 (1/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
7.4 (2/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
6.5 (2/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 19.5 41
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago12.3 45
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services77.6 3
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 64.0 4Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 25.3 6 23.0 27.1
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)13.6 5 13.5 13.7Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 70.6 4
To build great wealth or very high income 90.9 2
To continue a family tradition 72.2 2
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 90.9 3
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)7.5 7
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 5.3 28
Always consider social impact 85.3 9
Always consider environmental impact 78.7 18
Industry (% TEA in business services) 4.4 37=Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business87.9 1
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area93.2 1
It is easy to start a business 92.4 1
Personally have the skills and knowledge 90.8 1
Fear of failure (opportunity) 60.8 3
Entrepreneurial intentions 38.5 10Saudi Arabia
 QPopulation (2022): 36.4 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 59.1 thousand (World Bank)177 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Saudi Arabia is continuing to transform its economy, 
diversifying income sources to reduce reliance on oil, 
and improving competitiveness. Non-oil GDP growth 
in 2023 was expected to reach 5%, with inflation at 3%.
Recent legislation has sought to encourage 
entrepreneurship, safeguard private investment 
and lower the expense of doing business. Private 
investment was boosted by the Saudi Public 
Investment Fund (PIF).
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Saudi Arabia has invested heavily in its entrepreneurial 
environment as an important component in its 
diversification strategy. This investment has borne 
fruit, with the overall quality of its entrepreneurial 
environment, as assessed by its own national experts 
and measured by the National Entrepreneurial Context 
Index (NECI), increasing steadily from 5.0 in 2019 
to 6.3 in 2022 and the same in 2023, pushing Saudi 
Arabia up the NECI league table from 17th in 2019 to 
second in 2022 but down to third in 2023 (because 
of improvements in India’s NECI score). Saudi Arabia 
clearly has a high-quality entrepreneurial environment, 
with all individual Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) assessed as more than sufficient in 
2023, with the exception of Entrepreneurial Education 
at School, which, as in so many economies, continues 
to have by far the lowest EFC score. Individual EFC 
scores were little changed in 2023 compared to 2022.
National experts assessed social support for women 
entrepreneurs and those women entrepreneurs’ 
access to resources compared to their male 
counterparts (new 2023 questions). Results for Saudi 
Arabia were quite surprising. The social support for 
women starting their own business had an excellent 
score of 6.4, much better than sufficient and ranked 
third of the 49 GEM economies in the National Expert 
Survey (NES) in 2023. However, women entrepreneurs’ 
comparative access to resources, which ought not 
to be an issue in such a rich country, scored just 4.4, 
ranked 40th of those 49 economies. Urgent action 
is required here if Saudi Arabia is to maintain its new 
reputation as an excellent place to start a business.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
2023 was an excellent year for entrepreneurial activity 
in Saudi Arabia, though with some concerns.
Just one in five adults reported that their household 
income reduced in 2023, down from one in two 
a year earlier. Entrepreneurship has a very high 
profile in Saudi Arabia, with around nine in 10 adults 
each knowing someone who had recently started 
a business, or seeing good opportunities to do so 
locally, or considering themselves to have the skills 
and experience to start their own. Each of these 
proportions was the highest in GEM 2023. However, 
three out of five of those seeing good opportunities 
would not start a business for fear it might fail (third 
highest in GEM). Despite this, nearly two in five adults 
not already doing so intended to start their own 
business in the next three years.
In 2023, almost one in four adults in Saudi Arabia 
were starting or running a new business, by far the 
highest in Level A, and sixth highest in GEM. This level 
was around twice that of pre-pandemic 2019. However, 
one concern is that more than four out of five of these 
new businesses was in consumer services. Reflecting 
several years of high levels of new startups, the level 
of Established Business Ownership continues to 
grow: 5% in 2021, 10% in 2022 and reaching 14% in 
2023. So many new businesses are transitioning into 
established ones.
Building great wealth and earning a living because 
jobs are scarce share dominance as agreed motivations 
for new entrepreneurs. However, and perhaps because 
of the large and growing internal market, very few 
new Saudi entrepreneurs have customers beyond the 
country (less than one in 20). Nevertheless, more than 
three in four of those new entrepreneurs expect to 
use more digital technology in the next six months, 
while three in 10 expect to employ another six or more 
people over the next five years.
Overall, this is a very positive set of entrepreneurial 
outcomes for Saudi Arabia, with very high awareness 
of entrepreneurship, high levels of new and increasing 
levels of established businesses, all within a supportive 
and high-quality entrepreneurial environment. 
Concerns include the relative access of women 
entrepreneurs to resources, high levels of potential 
entrepreneurs deterred by fear of failure and the 
overwhelming dominance of consumer services.
Institution
Lead institution
Prince Mohammed bin Salman 
College (MBSC)
Babson Global Center for 
Entrepreneurial Leadership (BGCEL)
Type of institution
Business School
Website
https://www.mbsc.edu.sa
Other institutions involved
Emaar The Economic City
Team
Team leader
Dr. Muhammad Azam Roomi
David AbdowTeam members
Dr Alicia Coduras
Kim Stanhouse
Dr Donna Kelley
Funders
The Babson Global Center for 
Entrepreneurial Leadership (BGCEL) 
at MBSCAPS vendor
Field Interactibe-MR, Market Research 
Provider, monitored by Opinometre 
Institute LLS
Contact
mroomi@mbsc.edu.sa
dabdow@babson.eduECONOMY PROFILE178 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Slovak Republic
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (9/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
2.6 (17/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.8 (15/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.2 (19/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.0 (5/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.2 (15/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.8 (19/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.9 (12/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.6 (8/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.3 (8/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.6 (8/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.1 (19/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (11/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 36.2 21
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago46.1 22=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services40.2 35
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 24.5 43Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 10.7 27 8.9 12.6
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.0 42 3.5 4.4Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 37.1 35
To build great wealth or very high income 37.6 43
To continue a family tradition 24.3 34
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 70.4 18
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)4.1 16
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 10.0 23
Always consider social impact 80.3 17
Always consider environmental impact 80.4 15
Industry (% TEA in business services) 31.4 8Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business59.8 18=
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area32.9 43
It is easy to start a business 24.2 43
Personally have the skills and knowledge 50.7 35
Fear of failure (opportunity) 48.1 14
Entrepreneurial intentions 9.9 36Slovak Republic
 QPopulation (2022): 5.4 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 37.5 thousand (World Bank)
179 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
GDP growth in the Slovak Republic was expected to 
reach just over 1% in 2023, while inflation stood at 12%, 
one of the highest rates in the Eurozone. High inflation 
was causing uncertainty for entrepreneurs, with price 
instability identified as a major concern.
Slovakia introduced legislation in 2023 to define 
family businesses, setting the foundations for future 
policy support.
GEM has been established as an important source 
of input for entrepreneurship policymaking in Slovakia. 
Examples using GEM results include the Report on 
the State of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in 
the Slovak Republic, the Audit of the application of the 
Small Business Act principles in the Slovak Republic, 
and an analysis of the effectiveness of government 
entrepreneurship support programs.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The quality of the overall entrepreneurial environment 
in the Slovak Republic had been improving in recent 
years from a fairly low base, but took a step back in 
2023. The National Entrepreneurial Context Index 
(NECI) score for the Slovak Republic increased from 4.0 
in 2019, placing it 42nd of 54 participating economies 
that year, to 4.4 in 2022, placing it 31st of 50. It then fell 
to 4.0 in 2023, back to 39th of 49.
The driver of this decline was reduced scores for 
11 of the Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions 
(EFCs) between 2022 and 2023, with just one small 
increase (for Entrepreneurial Education at School). 
Many of these falls were small, with the largest being 
for Government Policy: Support and Relevance and 
for Commercial and Professional Infrastructure. The 
Slovak Republic continues to score well for its Physical 
Infrastructure, the highest of the Level B economies. 
However, Research and Development Transfers had 
the lowest score among Level B economies, and in the 
bottom 10 in GEM 2023.
National experts assessed the quality of social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access to 
resources compared to their male counterparts (new 
2023 questions). The Slovak Republic scored fairly 
poorly in each, with a score of 3.0 for social support 
(40th of 49) and 3.8 for access to resources (44th).
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Slow growth in the Slovak economy was reflected in 
one in three adults reporting that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, although this was an 
improvement on the one in two a year earlier.
The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) was just over one in 10 adults (10.8%), the same 
as the year before but much higher than it had been 
in 2021 (6.4%), although not yet back to pre-pandemic 
levels (13.3% in 2019). Men were more likely than 
women to be starting or running a new business, with 
three men doing so for every two women, perhaps 
not too surprising given the lack of social support and 
unequal access to resources for women entrepreneurs 
noted earlier. It is not only some women who are losing 
out here: so is the Slovak economy in terms of lost 
output, value-added and jobs.
The level of Established Business Ownership had 
fallen from a year earlier: from 6.4% in 2022 to just 4% 
in 2023. This implies a hollowing-out of the stock of 
small businesses, and is a major concern.
The profile of entrepreneurship in the Slovak 
Republic was reasonably good, with more than three 
in five adults knowing someone who had recently 
started a business, one in two adults considering 
they had the skills and experience to start their own, 
and one in three seeing good opportunities to start a 
business locally. However, almost a half of those seeing 
good opportunities would not start a business for 
fear it might fail. The proportion of adults not already 
doing so but expecting to start a business in the next 
three years was just under one in 10, higher than a year 
before, but, like TEA, not yet back to pre-pandemic 
levels.
Earning a living because jobs are scarce was 
by far the most agreed motivation among new 
entrepreneurs, who were also export-oriented, with 
more than one in three having customers beyond 
their borders. Two in five of those new entrepreneurs 
expected to use more digital technology in the next 
six months, while job expectations were fairly high, 
with almost four in 10 anticipating employing at least 
another six people over the next five years. This was the 
second highest proportion in GEM 2023, behind only 
Qatar, made more surprising by the Slovak Republic 
having the second highest share of solo entrepreneurs 
(those with one owner and no employees) at more 
than one in two, second to Israel in Level B and sixth 
highest in GEM 2023.
Institution
Lead institution
Comenius University in Bratislava, 
Faculty of Management
Type of institution
University
Website
https://www.fm.uniba.sk/en
Other institutions involved
Slovak Business Agency (SBA)
Team
Team leader
Prof. Ing. Anna Pilková, PhD, MBATeam members
Zuzana Kovacicova
Marian Holienka
Juraj Mikus
Jan Rehak
Funders
Slovak Business Agency (SBA)
Comenius University in Bratislava, 
Faculty of ManagementAPS vendor
Actly s. r. o.
Contact
anna.pilkova@fm.uniba.skECONOMY PROFILE180 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Slovenia
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.2 (10/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.9 (12/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.3 (14/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.3 (10/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.2 (13/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.8 (12/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.2 (13/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.7 (9/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
6.6 (4/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.9 (7/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.5 (11/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.1 (15/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.6 (15/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 19.0 42=
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago29.9 42
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services47.0 26
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 43.7 20Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 7.1 38 5.0 9.0
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)8.8 13 4.6 12.8Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 56.1 15
To build great wealth or very high income 53.6 28
To continue a family tradition 29.0 25
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 49.1 36
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.3 38
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 25.6 3
Always consider social impact 74.0 21
Always consider environmental impact 77.7 20
Industry (% TEA in business services) 31.2 9Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business55.4 22
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area50.2 30
It is easy to start a business 62.6 12
Personally have the skills and knowledge 62.8 20
Fear of failure (opportunity) 44.2 23
Entrepreneurial intentions 15.4 24Slovenia
 QPopulation (2022): 2.1 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 50.0 thousand (World Bank)
181 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Slovenian economy was expected to grow slowly in 
2023, with GDP expanding by just under 2%, impacted 
by the global slowdown which reduced export growth. 
The inflation rate was just under 8%, so entrepreneurs 
were faced both with rising costs and weakening 
export markets.
In 2023 the Slovenian government was trying to 
control energy prices to reduce inflation, support 
employment and wage growth to boost consumption, 
and to prioritize construction investment for flood 
recovery and expansion. The government’s focus has 
been on fostering green investments and improving 
access to finance, particularly for SMEs. This effort is 
reflected in the strategic development of the capital 
market, which is aimed at creating a more inclusive 
and supportive financial environment for businesses.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The overall quality of the Slovenian entrepreneurial 
environment, as assessed by its own national experts 
and as summarized in the National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI), has recovered strongly from the 
depths of the pandemic. Slovenia’s NECI score was
4.3 in 2021 and increased to 4.8 in both 2022 and 2023. 
In 2021, that score had placed Slovenia 32nd of the GEM 
economies; by 2023, the new score placed Slovenia 
among the top third of GEM economies, helped by the 
fact that many other economies saw their NECI score 
decline between 2022 and 2023.
Between 2022 and 2023, Entrepreneurial Framework 
Condition (EFC) scores for Slovenia changed very little, 
although eight increased slightly and three decreased. 
The largest changes were for Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance, falling from 4.4 to 3.9, for 
Government Entrepreneurial Programs (from 5.8 to 
5.3), while Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics saw its score 
increase from 6.0 to 6.6.
National experts were asked in 2023 to assess the 
social support for women entrepreneurs, and those 
women entrepreneurs’ access to resources compared 
to their male counterparts. Slovenia was one of just 10 
economies in which the assessment for social support 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.(5.0) exceeded that for access to resources (3.5), the 
former placing Slovenia 11th of the 49 GEM economies, 
and the latter placing it 47th. There is clearly much 
work to do to improve access to resources for women 
entrepreneurs.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), one in 
five adults in Slovenia reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, a proportion that has been 
steadily reducing since this question was first asked by 
GEM in 2020, when it had been two in five.
The profile of entrepreneurship in Slovenia in 2023 
appeared close to the European average, with just 
over one in two adults knowing someone who had 
started a business recently, and a similar proportion 
seeing good opportunities to start a business locally. 
Confidence was fairly high, with just over three in five 
adults considering themselves to have the skills and 
experience to start their own business. However, more 
than two in five of those seeing good opportunities 
would not start a business for fear it might fail, which 
may be why the proportion of adults expecting to start 
a business in the next three years was less than one in 
six.
The proportion of adults starting or running a new 
business in Slovenia in 2023 was fairly modest at 7%, 
down from 8% a year earlier. Men were much more 
likely than women to be starting a new business, 
possibly reflecting the difficulties noted above that 
women face accessing resources compared to men. 
The level of Established Business Ownership was a 
little higher than for new entrepreneurship, at 8.8%, 
implying just under one new business for every 
established business.
Agreement among new entrepreneurs was about 
evenly split between the motivations to make a 
difference in the world (56%) and to build great wealth 
or very high income (54%). New entrepreneurs were 
very outward-looking, with more than one in two 
having customers outside of their own borders, the 
second highest proportion in GEM 2023. Just under 
one in two new entrepreneurs expected to use more 
digital technology in the next six months, while around 
one in five expected to employ at least another six 
people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
University of Maribor, Faculty of 
Economics and Business
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://www.um.si/en
https://www.epf.um.si/en/
https://ipmmp.um.si/
globalni-podjetniski-monitor/
Team
Team leader
Prof. Karin Širec, PhD
Team members
Prof. Polona Tominc, PhDProf. Katja Crnogaj, PhD
Prof. Barbara Bradač Hojnik, PhD
Matej Rus, MSc
Ivona Huđek, PhD
Prof. Emeritus Miroslav Rebernik, PhD
Funders
SPIRIT Slovenia — Public 
Agency for Entrepreneurship, 
Internationalization, Foreign 
Investments and TechnologySlovenian Research and Innovation 
Agency
Institute for Entrepreneurship and 
Small Business Management at 
Faculty of Economics & Business, 
University of Maribor
APS vendor
Mediana
Contact
karin.sirec@um.siECONOMY PROFILE182 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)South Africa
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.5 (7/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.3 (6/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.7 (8/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.0 (11/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.8 (7/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
3.7 (13/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.7 (11/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.4 (12/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.2 (6/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.2 (11/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
4.5 (12/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.3 (14/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (5/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 57.7 3
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago44.6 27
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services61.3 14
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 44.6 17Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)2.4 21=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 13.1 19
Always consider social impact 68.4 29
Always consider environmental impact 60.9 37
Industry (% TEA in business services) 3.6 44Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 61.4 12
To build great wealth or very high income 64.9 16
To continue a family tradition 47.2 8
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 69.4 19
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 11.1 24 9.7 12.7
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.9 28 4.1 7.9Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business39.0 42
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area64.1 15=
It is easy to start a business 61.9 14
Personally have the skills and knowledge 69.2 15=
Fear of failure (opportunity) 59.5 4
Entrepreneurial intentions 7.5 42South Africa
 QPopulation (2022): 59.9 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 15.9 thousand (World Bank)183 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Economic growth, as measured by real GDP change, 
has slowed in South Africa, falling from 2% in 2022 
to an expected 0.4% in 2023. Shortages of electricity 
continue to disrupt business activity and to increase 
business costs. Inflation rose to 7% in 2022, and is 
expected to remain high at around 6% in 2023. Interest 
rates had increased to almost 12% by the end of 2023, 
placing huge pressure on businesses and consumers.
The National Small Enterprise Amendment Bill 
(2023) aims to provide support to small businesses by 
introducing an independent arbiter to deliver justice 
to small businesses outside of the complexity and 
expense of the formal legal system.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The quality of the overall entrepreneurial environment 
in South Africa, as assessed by its own national experts 
and summarized in the National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI), had improved from a score of 3.7 
in 2021 to 4.1 in 2022, but fell back to just 3.6 in 2023, 
third lowest of the 49 GEM participating economies.
This reduction reflected declines in 11 of the 13 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs), with 
only Entrepreneurial Finance and Ease of Entry: Market 
Dynamics recording increases. The greatest fall was in 
Social and Cultural Norms, down from 4.5 in 2022 to 
just 3.3 in 2023. Such a large fall for this EFC is unusual, 
because Social and Cultural Norms typically change 
very slowly. Scores for other EFCs also fell substantially, 
including for both educational EFCs, for Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs, for Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance, and for Research and 
Development Transfers. No South African EFC was 
scored as sufficient (score ≥5.0) in 2023.
Although South Africa’s scores for women’s 
entrepreneurship were also less than sufficient, those 
scores were relatively better than for most of the 
EFCs. Experts assessed the social support for women 
entrepreneurs at 3.9, which, while low, placed South 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.Africa 21st of the 49 GEM economies. The assessment 
for women entrepreneurs’ access to resources scored 
higher at 4.9, but this was 31st of the 49 economies.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
The parlous state of the South African economy was 
reflected in the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), 
with nearly three in five adults reporting that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, a proportion little 
changed over the previous two years.
The entrepreneurial profile remains high in South 
Africa, with two in five adults knowing someone who 
had recently started a business, and two in three 
either seeing good opportunities to do the same or 
considering they have the skills and experience to 
start their own business. However, nearly three in five 
of those seeing good opportunities would not start a 
business for fear it may fail. Partly as a result, just 8% of 
adults expected to start their own business in the next 
three years.
In recent years, the level of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) in South Africa has 
fluctuated a great deal: from 17.5% in 2021 to 8.5% in 
2022, and then up to 11.1% in 2023. Men are slightly 
more likely to be starting a business than women 
(male TEA = 12.7%, female TEA = 9.7%). Established 
Business Ownership, at 5.9%, was up sharply on a year 
earlier.
Seven out of 10 new entrepreneurs agreed with the 
motivation to earn a living because jobs are scarce, 
with slightly fewer (two out of three) agreeing with the 
motivation to build great wealth or very high income. 
Only one in five new entrepreneurs had customers 
outside of their own country, but three in five expected 
to use more digital technologies in the next six 
months. A respectable one in five new entrepreneurs 
expected to employ at least another six people over the 
next five years, more or less the same proportion as in 
2022, but down from the three in 10 of 2021.
Overall, the level of entrepreneurial activity has held 
up relatively well in 2023, despite some deterioration in 
the quality of the entrepreneurial environment.
Institution
Lead institution
Stellenbosch University
Type of institution
University
Website
www.sun.ac.zawww.stellenboschbusiness.ac.za
Other institutions involved
University of Johannesburg
Team
Team leader
Angus Bowmaker-Falconer
Team members
Prof Natanya MeyerDr Mahsa Samsami
Prof Marius Ungerer
Funders
Stellenbosch Business School
Small Enterprise Development 
Agency (Seda)
Standard Bank of South Africa 
LimitedAPS vendor
NielsenIQ South Africa
Contact
abf@sun.ac.zaECONOMY PROFILE184 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Spain
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.2 (18/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.3 (15/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
3.2 (16/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.3 (9/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (19/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.3 (12/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.5 (13/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.8 (14/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.2 (18/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.4 (18/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.3 (12/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
3.3 (16/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.6 (15/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 34.1 24
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago46.8 20=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services44.6 30
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 41.0 25Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)0.7 44
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 17.9 14
Always consider social impact 60.1 39=
Always consider environmental impact 58.8 39
Industry (% TEA in business services) 34.5 3Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 37.6 32
To build great wealth or very high income 37.2 44
To continue a family tradition 21.7 37
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 57.1 34
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 6.8 40= 6.1 7.5
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)6.7 24= 6.0 7.4Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business48.3 33
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area30.7 44
It is easy to start a business 29.9 41
Personally have the skills and knowledge 53.2 30
Fear of failure (opportunity) 46.2 19
Entrepreneurial intentions 9.6 37Spain
 QPopulation (2022): 47.6 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 45.8 thousand (World Bank)
185 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Spanish economy is expected to grow over 2% in 
2023, and is continuing to create new jobs and reduce 
the number of temporary employees. Inflation in 
September 2023 stood at 3.5%, one of the lowest levels 
in the European Union.
In 2022, Spanish Startup Law 28/2022 aimed to 
create a more favourable regulatory framework 
and thereby boost emerging and innovative 
businesses, although there are still some continuing 
entrepreneurial perceptions of instability in Spain. In 
2023, Spain’s government expanded the application of 
the Startup Law.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
In 2021, Spain had a National Entrepreneurial Context 
Index (NECI) score of 5.4, placing it 10th of the 50 
economies participating in GEM that year. In 2022, this 
score fell to 4.0, and in 2023 fell further to 3.8, much 
less than sufficient, and placing Spain 44th of the 49 
economies evaluated.
Despite a lower average perception of the 
quality of the national Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs), in 2023 national experts improved 
their evaluation of Government Entrepreneurial 
Programs, Research and Development Transfers, 
and Government Policy: Support and Relevance for 
entrepreneurs in Spain. However, these improvements 
were more than offset by declines in eight other 
framework conditions, with just one assessed as 
sufficient in 2023 (Physical Infrastructure), compared 
to three the year before.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
The percentage of adults starting or running a new 
business in Spain has increased slowly over the 
previous three years, reaching 6.8% in 2023 compared 
to 6.0% in 2022. Men were more likely than women to 
start a business, although the difference was small. 
Established Business Ownership was more or less 
the same rate as for those starting or running a new 
business, implying that Spain had one adult starting 
a new business for each adult owning an established 
one.
The proportion of adults reporting that their 
household income had fallen in 2023 was just one in 
three, having declined slowly each year from two in 
five in 2020.
Almost one in two adults in Spain know someone 
who had recently started their own business, with just 
over one in two considering themselves to have the 
skills and experience to start their own. The proportion 
seeing good opportunities to start a business locally 
was lower at three in 10, and of these one in two adults 
would not start a business for fear it might fail. Just 
one in 10 of those not already doing so intend to start a 
business in the next three years.
Earning a living because jobs are scarce was the 
most agreed motivation among new entrepreneurs, 
at nearly three out of five, although the relevance of 
this motivation compared with others has decreased 
considerably in 2023. Those starting or running a new 
business were relatively international in outlook, with 
more than one in three having customers beyond 
Spain. Just about one in two expected to use more 
digital technology in the next six months, while job 
creation expectations were fairly low, with only one 
in 10 new entrepreneurs expecting to employ at least 
another six people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Observatorio del Emprendimiento de 
España (OEE)
Type of institution
Non Profit Organization
Website
http://www.gem-spain.com
Regional teams
María Jesús Hernández Ortiz, PhD, 
GEM Andalucía; Lucio Fuentelsaz 
Lamata, PhD, GEM Aragón; Consuelo 
González Gil, PhD, GEM Aragón; Manuel González Díaz, PhD, GEM 
Asturias; Julio Batle Lorente, PhD, 
GEM Baleares; Rosa Batista Canino, 
PhD, GEM Canarias; Ana Fernández 
Laviada, PhD, GEM Cantabria; Paula 
Martin Espina, PhD, GEM Cantabria; 
Juan José González Moreno, PhD, 
GEM Castilla la Mancha; Ángela 
González Moreno, PhD, GEM Castilla 
la Mancha; Nuria González Álvarez, 
PhD, GEM Castilla León; Carlos 
Guallarte Núñez, PhD, GEM Cataluña; 
Gabriel Parada Arias, PhD, GEM 
Ceuta; José María Gómez Gras, PhD, 
GEM C. Valenciana; Ignacio Mira 
Solves, PhD, GEM C. Valenciana; 
Antonio Fernández Portillo, PhD, 
GEM Extremadura; Maricruz Sánchez 
Escobedo, PhD, GEM Extremadura; 
Loreto Fernández Fernández, PhD, 
GEM Galicia; Miguel Angoitia Grijalba, 
PhD, GEM Madrid; Mª del Mar Fuentes 
Fuentes, PhD, GEM Granada/Melilla; 
Alicia Rubio Bañon, PhD, GEM Murcia; Ignacio Contín Pilart, PhD, GEM 
Navarra; Martín Larraza Quintana, 
PhD, GEM Navarra; María Saiz Santos, 
PhD, GEM País Vasco; Luis Ruano 
Marrón, PhD, GEM Rioja; Jose Manuel 
Sánchez Vázquez, PhD, GEM Cádiz; 
Emilio Jesús Morales Fernández, 
PhD, GEM Córdoba; Esteban Almirón 
Navarro, PhD, GEM Córdoba; María 
Jesús Hernández Ortiz, PhD, GEM 
Jaén; Rafael Ventura Fernández, PhD, 
GEM Málaga; Carmen Cabello Medina, 
PhD, GEM Sevilla; Francisco Liñán, 
PhD, GEM Sevilla/Huelva; Carlos Jesús 
Cano Guillén, PhD GEM Almeria
National team
Team leader
Ana Fernández Laviada, PhD
National team members
Nuria Calvo Babío, PhDYago Atrio Lema
Ariadna Monje Amor, PhD
Paula San Martin Espina, PhD
Ignacio Mira Solves, PhD
Mª del Mar Fuentes Fuentes, PhD
María Saiz Santos, PhD
Funders
ENISA (Ministry of Industry, 
Commerce and Tourism)
APS vendor
Opinometre
Contact
presidencia@gem-spain.comECONOMY PROFILE186 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Sweden
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (15/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.5 (15/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.8 (12/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.7 (13/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.9 (7/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.4 (16/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.0 (14/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.1 (14/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.5 (12/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.3 (14/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.9 (8/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.6 (8/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.0 (8/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 25.5 34
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago25.6 44
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services39.7 37
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 33.9 35Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 9.2 34 7.3 11.1
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.5 30 2.8 8.0Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 43.1 25
To build great wealth or very high income 53.7 26=
To continue a family tradition 26.4 29=
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 29.1 43
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.5 32=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 20.4 9
Always consider social impact 60.1 39=
Always consider environmental impact 53.8 41
Industry (% TEA in business services) 30.7 10Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business51.5 29
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area69.0 8
It is easy to start a business 79.7 5
Personally have the skills and knowledge 47.2 40
Fear of failure (opportunity) 43.4 24
Entrepreneurial intentions 10.7 33Sweden
 QPopulation (2022): 10.5 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 64.6 thousand (World Bank)
187 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Swedish economy entered recession in 2023, with 
GDP per capita expected to fall by 1.2% over the year. 
Even though inflation has been falling, it remains 
well above the target of 2%, leading the Riksbank 
to continue to increase interest rates and dampen 
economic activity. The number of bankruptcies has 
risen to the highest levels in Sweden recorded over 20 
years.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
In 2023 Sweden joined the group of high-income 
developed North American and European economies 
which had seen the national-expert-assessed quality of 
their entrepreneurial environment slip from sufficient 
to less than sufficient since the pandemic.
The quality of that overall environment is distilled 
in the National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI). 
In 2021 Sweden had a NECI score of 5.3, declining to 
5.0 (just sufficient) in 2022 and then to a less-than-
sufficient 4.7 in 2023.
Just two years ago, Sweden had six of its 13 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs) scored 
as sufficient. By 2023, this had fallen to four, with Ease 
of Access to Entrepreneurial Finance and Ease of Entry: 
Market Dynamics no longer regarded as sufficient, 
both having experienced large falls in their scores from 
2022. In fact, between 2022 and 2023, 10 EFC scores fell, 
with scores increasing in just two.
National experts assessed the quality of social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access 
to resources compared to their male counterparts 
(new 2023 questions). For social support for women 
entrepreneurs, Sweden scored a creditable 6.1, 
fifth among all the GEM economies, but for access 
to resources the score was just 5.1, or 25th among 
GEM economies. Sweden was part of a select group 
of 10 economies with scores for social support 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.that exceeded their scores for access to resources. 
Interestingly, six of these economies were from 
Northern Europe, with the other four from the Arabian 
Gulf.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In 2023, one in four Swedish adults reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, down from two 
in five the previous year.
The entrepreneurial landscape is reasonably visible 
in Sweden, with just over one in two adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business, and just 
under one in two adults considering they had the skills 
and experience to start a business themselves. Nearly 
seven out of 10 adults saw good opportunities to start 
a business locally, but two in five of these would not 
start a business for fear it might fail. Around one in 10 
of Swedish adults not starting or running a business 
expect to do so in the next three years.
The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) in Sweden in 2023 was just under one in 10 
adults, a level that has been consistent over the past 
three years, and a little higher than pre-pandemic. The 
male rate was well above that for females, implying 
that three men were starting or running a new 
business in Sweden for every two women doing the 
same. The level of Established Business Ownership 
was around 5%, meaning that there were two adults 
starting or running a new business for every adult 
owning an established one.
One in two new entrepreneurs agreed with the 
motivation to build great wealth or very high income, 
while two in five agreed with making a difference 
in the world. One in three new entrepreneurs had 
customers outside Sweden, while two in five expected 
to use more digital technologies in the next six 
months. About one in six of those starting or running a 
new business expected to employ at least another six 
people over the next five years, a rate twice that of two 
years ago.
Institution
Lead institution
Swedish Entrepreneurship Forum 
(Entreprenörskapsforum)
Type of institution
Research Institute
Website
https://entreprenorskapsforum.se
Team
Team leader
Per ThulinTeam members
Marcus Kardelo
Anders Broström
Martin Svensson
Funders
Confederation of Swedish Enterprise
Triton Advisers SwedenAPS vendor
Norstat
Contact
per.thulin@entreprenorskapsforum.se
marcus.kardelo@
entreprenorskapsforum.seECONOMY PROFILE188 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Switzerland
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.7 (8/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
5.1 (6/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.6 (6/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
6.1 (5/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.5 (10/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.6 (4/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
6.0 (2/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
6.2 (4/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
3.8 (16/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.9 (8/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.6 (2/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.0 (7/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
5.8 (4/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 27.1 31=
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago30.5 41
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services31.0 42
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 33.7 36Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 10.3 29 9.7 10.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.8 29 5.0 6.7Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 53.6 16
To build great wealth or very high income 39.2 42
To continue a family tradition 8.8 44
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 40.6 41
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)1.5 32=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 19.5 11
Always consider social impact 70.9 28
Always consider environmental impact 75.4 24
Industry (% TEA in business services) 42.6 1Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business54.2 24
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area52.5 27=
It is easy to start a business 67.5 9
Personally have the skills and knowledge 44.9 43
Fear of failure (opportunity) 36.4 37
Entrepreneurial intentions 10.0 35Switzerland
 QPopulation (2022): 8.8 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 83.6 thousand (World Bank)189 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Swiss GDP growth has slowed, with the economy 
expected to have expanded by just over 1% in 2023, 
slightly above the Eurozone average. By November 
2023, inflation was down to 1.3%. Switzerland has been 
affected by the poor global economic climate, with the 
strong Swiss franc limiting exports.
The Swiss government has introduced a new 
program, “Swiss Accelerator”, for established startups 
with innovation potential, providing direct financial 
support. The Federal Act on the Promotion of Research 
and Innovation (RIPA) was revised to provide better 
support for science-based entrepreneurship. The Swiss 
Parliament is dealing with a number of initiatives to 
improve the entrepreneurial environment.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The assessed quality of the overall entrepreneurial 
environment in Switzerland dipped in the pandemic, 
but looked well on the path to recovery before 
improvement faltered in 2023. In 2019, Switzerland 
topped the GEM National Entrepreneurial Context 
Index (NECI). Since then, there have been some 
declines, combined with improvements in other 
economies, that pushed Switzerland down to just 
ninth in 2023.
As the midpoint of 5.0 is regarded as sufficient, 
Switzerland had nine Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) assessed as sufficient or better 
in 2023, down from 11 the year before. The four 
insufficient conditions were Ease of Access to 
Entrepreneurial Finance, Ease of Entry: Market 
Dynamics, Ease of Entry: Burdens and Regulations, and 
Entrepreneurial Education at School, with the latter 
rated weakest of all the conditions, yet again. Physical 
Infrastructure scored highest, also typically. Between 
2022 and 2023, all three government conditions and 
both education conditions had lower scores, as did five 
other conditions. The only condition with an improved 
score was Social and Cultural Norms. Yet in 2023 
Switzerland still had three conditions ranked in the top 
five across the 49 economies: Entrepreneurial Finance, 
Research and Development Transfers, and Physical 
Infrastructure.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.New questions in 2023 saw experts assessing the 
quality of social support for women entrepreneurs, 
and for those women entrepreneurs’ access to 
resources compared to men. Like in many economies, 
Switzerland scored higher for the latter than for the 
former, with a score of 4.0 for social support (ranked 
19th) and 5.0 for relative access to resources, ranked 
27th.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), more 
than one in four adults reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, while almost one in 10 had 
invested in someone else’s new business, back to 
pre-pandemic levels.
Entrepreneurship has a reasonable public profile in 
Switzerland, with more than one in two adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business, a 
similar proportion seeing some opportunities to start 
a business locally, but under one in two considering 
they had the skills and experience to start a business 
themselves (third lowest in GEM). Of those seeing good 
opportunities, more than one in three would not start 
a business for fear it might fail. Of those adults not 
already doing so, just one in 10 intended to start their 
own business within the next three years, just about 
back to pre-pandemic levels. More than two out of five 
new startups were in business services, the highest 
level in GEM 2023.
A little more than one in 10 adults were already 
starting or running a new business in Switzerland, with 
men more likely to be doing so than women, but the 
difference was small. Established Business Ownership 
stood at just 6% of adults, little more than half of its 
pre-pandemic level in 2019.
Making a difference in the world was the most 
agreed motivation among new entrepreneurs, but 
hardly dominant at one in two. Three in 10 expected 
to use more digital technologies in the next six 
months, and nearly four in 10 had customers beyond 
Switzerland. Despite two in five starting or running a 
new business being solo entrepreneurs (one owner 
and no current employees), around one in seven new 
entrepreneurs expected to employ at least another six 
people within the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
School of Management Fribourg 
(HEG-FR)
Type of institution
Business School
Website
https://www.heg-fr.ch/enOther institutions involved
Swiss Start-up Factory
Swiss Economic Forum
Impact Hub Switzerland
Team
Team leader
Prof. Rico Baldegger, PhD
Team members
Raphael GaudartGabriel Simonet
Pascal Wild
Maya Dougoud
Lucia Zurkinden
Funders
School of Management Fribourg 
(HEG-FR)
University of Applied Sciences and 
Arts of Western Switzerland (HES-SO)APS vendor
Gfs Bern
Contact
Rico.baldegger@hefr.chECONOMY PROFILE190 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Thailand
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.7 (6/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.3 (7/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.4 (5/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.2 (8/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.6 (8/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.1 (11/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.3 (5/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
4.6 (9/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.6 (4/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.7 (8/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.3 (1/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.3 (7/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.1 (4/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 40.9 14
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago48.0 18
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services70.7 9
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 60.1 7Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 23.6 7= 24.5 22.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)11.8 9 10.3 13.3Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 50.3 19
To build great wealth or very high income 78.7 8
To continue a family tradition 66.9 3
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 82.0 10
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)7.6 6
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 8.5 25
Always consider social impact 87.4 6
Always consider environmental impact 87.8 8
Industry (% TEA in business services) 4.3 39Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business22.5 46
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area79.4 3
It is easy to start a business 78.1 6
Personally have the skills and knowledge 76.5 6
Fear of failure (opportunity) 48.0 15
Entrepreneurial intentions 30.1 12Thailand
 QPopulation (2022): 71.7 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 20.7 thousand (World Bank)
191 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The Thai economy grew by 2% in the first half of 2023, 
led by an increasing influx of tourism after the difficult 
pandemic years. Inflation was very low (0.4%), despite 
increasing energy and food prices. Potential dangers 
on the horizon include a slowdown in manufacturing 
and exports, and an expected increase in the minimum 
wage in 2024.
Thailand has been making sweeping changes 
in its tax regulations and practices as international 
tax principles are incorporated into its domestic 
regulations.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Thailand last participated in the GEM National Expert 
Survey (NES) in 2019, so only limited comparisons 
will be made with those results. Of course, the world 
has changed over that period, including the global 
COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine and shifts in 
energy prices.
In 2019, the quality of the overall entrepreneurial 
environment in Thailand, as assessed by its own 
national experts and summed up in the National 
Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI), was scored at 
5.0, or just sufficient. By 2023 that NECI score had fallen 
to 4.3, much less than sufficient. One consequence is 
that Thailand moved down the GEM NECI rankings, 
from 18th of 51 economies in 2019, to 34th of 49 
economies in 2023. In the period between these years, 
experts’ scores for 12 of 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Conditions (EFCs) had fallen, with the largest declines 
being for the two finance EFCs and for Ease of Entry: 
Burdens and Regulations. In 2023, Thailand sat firmly 
in the middle of the Level C EFC assessments, with 
six of its EFCs rated above the group average and five 
below.
Thailand scored a bit better in the expert 
assessments of social support for women 
entrepreneurs, and for women entrepreneurs’ access 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.to resources compared to men, scoring 4.0 for the 
former (18th of 49) and 4.9 for the latter (30th).
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Before 2023, there had been no recent participation by 
Thailand in the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), so 
no comparisons over time can be made. In 2023, two 
in five adults in Thailand reported that their household 
income had declined in that year, slightly less than 
average for a Level C economy.
Entrepreneurial networks were fairly low-profile in 
Thailand, with just one in five adults knowing someone 
who had recently started a business, the lowest level 
of the 45 GEM economies. However, three in four 
adults considered they had the skills and experience to 
start a business themselves, and a similar proportion 
saw good opportunities to start a business locally 
(third highest in GEM behind Saudi Arabia and India). 
So there is no lack of entrepreneurial confidence in 
Thailand, confirmed by the three in 10 adults who 
expect to start a business in the next three years. That 
proportion could be higher, but nearly half of those 
seeing good opportunities would not start a business 
for fear it might fail.
Nearly one in four adults were already starting 
or running a new business in Thailand, with slightly 
more women doing so than men. Established 
Business Ownership was relatively high, at nearly 
12%, but had declined compared to pre-pandemic 
levels of 20% in 2018. Both the percentages of adults 
starting new businesses and the percentage owning 
established businesses put Thailand in the top 10 
for entrepreneurial activity of the 46 economies 
participating in the 2023 GEM APS.
Four out of five new entrepreneurs agreed with the 
motivations to earn a living because jobs are scarce 
and to build great wealth or very high income. Just one 
in five had customers outside Thailand, while seven 
in 10 expected to use more digital technologies in the 
next six months to sell their products. Job expectations 
were low, with just one in 10 of those starting or 
running a new business expecting to employ at least 
another six people over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
Bangkok University — School of 
Entrepreneurship and Management 
(BUSEM)
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
www.bu.ac.th
Team
Team leader
Ulrike Guelich
Wutnipong Warakraisawad
Team members
Suchart Tripopsakul
Kanjana PatanaworaphanNanida Sroidokson
Phisanu Katcharoen
Titipong Roengrittirong
Arthorn Prompatanapak
Phongphet Chutitananon
Oytip Sodsang
Funders
Bangkok University
OSMEP (Office of SMEs Promotion)APS vendor
Intage (Thailand) Co. Ltd.
Contact
ulrike.guelich@gmail.com
gem_thailand@bu.ac.thECONOMY PROFILE192 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Ukraine
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.7 (5/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.2 (8/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.4 (6/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.1 (10/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
4.3 (2/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.2 (4/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.3 (4/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.0 (5/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.8 (9/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.5 (9/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.2 (8/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.0 (3/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.8 (7/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 71.6 1
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago– –
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services– –
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic – –Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 19.6 12 – –
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)5.2 32= – –Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world – –
To build great wealth or very high income – –
To continue a family tradition – –
To earn a living because jobs are scarce – –
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)– –
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) – –
Always consider social impact – –
Always consider environmental impact – –
Industry (% TEA in business services) – –Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business60.6 13
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area37.3 41
It is easy to start a business 38.9 33
Personally have the skills and knowledge 57.2 23
Fear of failure (opportunity) – –
Entrepreneurial intentions – –Ukraine
 QPopulation (2022): 38.0 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 12.7 thousand (World Bank)193 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Ukraine’s economy is gradually recovering, with 
projected GDP growth of just under 5% in 2023, 
following a decline of about 30% in 2022. Inflation 
is forecast to slow to around 6% by the end of 2023, 
continuing to challenge entrepreneurs by increasing 
both costs and uncertainty.
The Ukrainian government has taken steps to 
support entrepreneurship during the war. Initiatives 
include the “Affordable Credits” program providing 
finance for businesses in deoccupied territories, 
expanding the program to include arms production 
and energy, and offering new loans to agricultural 
enterprises.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
In 2023, 91 national experts in Ukraine participated in 
the National Expert Survey (NES), providing a wide 
range of perspectives.
In this NES, just four of Ukraine’s Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) were scored as sufficient 
or better: Entrepreneurial Education Post-School, 
Commercial and Professional Infrastructure, Social 
and Cultural Norms in support of entrepreneurship, 
and Physical Infrastructure, with the latter scored as 
strongest of Ukraine’s EFCs. So Ukraine has a solid 
physical infrastructure and strong social support 
for entrepreneurship. At the other end of the scale, 
six conditions were rated as poor, scoring less than 
4.0, with Government Entrepreneurial Programs the 
weakest, followed by Government Policy: Support and 
Relevance. Across the 49 economies, the highest-
ranked of Ukraine’s EFCs was Entrepreneurial 
Education at School, 10th, while the lowest rank was for 
Government Entrepreneurial Programs, at 45th.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.In 2023, Ukraine had an National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI) score of 4.3, ranked 29th of 49 
economies.
National experts assessed the quality of social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access to 
resources compared to men (new questions for 2023). 
Ukraine had a reasonable, if less than sufficient, score 
for social support with 4.4, ranked 14th, but a very poor 
score for comparative access to resources, scoring 
3.3 and ranked 48th. In this, Ukraine was alongside 
the small group of Baltic states (Latvia, Lithuania and 
Estonia) which also scored relatively highly for social 
support for women entrepreneurs but much more 
poorly for their equal access to resources.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
Because of the relatively small sample size in Ukraine’s 
Adult Population Survey (APS), only limited results will 
be presented here, with no subdivisions within those 
starting or running a new business in Ukraine.
Ukraine had the highest proportion of adults 
reporting that their household income had fallen in 
2023 of the 46 participating economies, at just over 
seven in 10.
Entrepreneurship has a reasonable profile in 
Ukraine, with nearly three out of five adults knowing 
someone who had recently started a business, nearly 
one in two seeing good opportunities to start a 
business locally, and almost three in five considering 
themselves to have the skills and experience to 
start their own. However, of those seeing good 
opportunities, about one in two would not start a 
business for fear it might fail.
A creditable one in five adults in Ukraine in 2023 
were already starting or running a new business, while 
one in 20 were Established Business Owners, implying 
that, despite the most difficult of conditions, one in 
four adults in Ukraine were involved in running a new 
or established business.
Institution
Lead institution
Institute for Circle and Hydrogen 
Economy (NGO)
Type of institution
NGO 
Website
https://www.circularh2economy.org/
Team
Team leader
Serhii ApalkovTeam members
Viktoriia Apalkova
Oksana Tarasiuk
Nataliia Meshko
Funders
Institute for Circle and Hydrogen 
Economy (NGO)APS vendor
IMData, Ltd
Contact
sergeapalkov@gmail.comECONOMY PROFILE194 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)United Arab Emirates
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
7.2 (1/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
7.9 (1/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
7.5 (1/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
7.5 (1/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
7.7 (1/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
7.8 (1/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
7.8 (1/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
7.8 (1/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
8.0 (1/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
7.3 (1/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.6 (3/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
8.1 (1/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
7.3 (1/16)United Arab Emirates
 QPopulation (2022): 9.4 million (World Bank)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 87.7 thousand (World Bank)
United Arab Emirates did not participate 
in the 2023 Adult Population Survey.195 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The United Arab Emirates’ GDP is expected to grow by 
just under 4% in 2023, with inflation modest enough, at 
around 3%, to have little impact on entrepreneurship.
The government continues to pursue 
entrepreneurship as a key priority in the “Project of 50”, 
a series of projects to develop the country in the next 
50 years of independence.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
The United Arab Emirates has invested heavily in its 
entrepreneurial environment, and the assessed quality 
of that environment continues to improve. In 2022, it 
had an overall entrepreneurial environment assessed 
by its national experts as the best in GEM, with a 
National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI) score 
of 7.2, well above that of second place Saudi Arabia 
who scored 6.3. In 2023, this lead was extended, with 
the score improving to 7.7, the highest NECI score 
ever recorded by GEM, this time with India second at 
6.6. Yet, as recently as 2019, the United Arab Emirates 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.had scored 5.8 and ranked fifth. This demonstrates 
astonishing progress, and a shining example of how 
political determination and sufficient resources can 
transform an entrepreneurial environment.
In 2023, 11 of the 13 Entrepreneurial Framework 
Condition (EFC) scores improved from 2022, with one 
decrease and one unchanged. The highest increases 
were for Research and Development Transfers and 
for Commercial and Professional Infrastructure, each 
improving its score from 6.8 to 7.8. The only condition 
with a score that fell was Physical Infrastructure, 
dipping slightly (from 7.7 to 7.6), and being the only 
condition not rated first across the 49 economies 
participating in the National Expert Survey (NES) in 
2023.
It is difficult to see how the entrepreneurial 
environment in the United Arab Emirates can continue 
to improve from these very high scores. Yet the same 
could have been said in 2021 or 2022. Results for 2024 
are awaited with interest.
National experts assessed the quality of social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access 
to resources compared to men (new questions for 
2023). The United Arab Emirates had excellent scores 
for each: 8.0 for social support and 7.4 for comparative 
access for resources, both the highest in GEM 2023.
Institution
Lead institution
United Arab Emirates University 
(UAEU)
Type of institution
UniversityWebsite
https://www.uaeu.ac.ae/en
https://gemuae.uaeu.ac.ae/en/
Team
Team leader
Teemu KautonenTeam members
Chafik Bouhaddioui
Llewellyn Thomas
Funders
United Arab Emirates University 
(UAEU)APS vendor
Kantar
Contact
teemu.kautonen@uaeu.ac.ae
gemuae@uaeu.ac.aeECONOMY PROFILE196 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)United Kingdom
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.2 (12/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.7 (14/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.2 (7/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
4.1 (15/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.0 (14/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.6 (15/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.9 (15/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.3 (13/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
5.5 (7/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.7 (9/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
5.4 (16/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.5 (9/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.8 (12/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 24.5 36
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago50.1 13
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services61.5 13
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 55.4 11Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 11.8 23 10.3 13.3
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)6.3 26 4.9 7.7Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 58.8 13
To build great wealth or very high income 66.6 14=
To continue a family tradition 20.5 38
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 61.4 31
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)3.0 18
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 19.4 12
Always consider social impact 80.8 16
Always consider environmental impact 72.6 25
Industry (% TEA in business services) 28.1 14=Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business52.9 27
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area47.2 34
It is easy to start a business 63.2 11
Personally have the skills and knowledge 52.8 31
Fear of failure (opportunity) 53.2 9=
Entrepreneurial intentions 11.2 32United Kingdom
 QPopulation (2022): 67.0 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 54.6 thousand (World Bank)197 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The UK economy has been growing slowly since the 
pandemic, with UK GDP some 2% larger in June 2023 
when compared with the last quarter before the 
pandemic (three months to end of December 2019). 
However, growth in 2023 has been sluggish at best 
and GDP showed no growth in the three months to 
September 2023.
However, business insolvencies increased by 17% 
in the year to September 2023, pushed up by higher 
business costs including interest rates. Inflation was 
beginning to fall, from 10% at the start of 2023 to just 
5% in October, but still more than twice the Bank of 
England target rate of 2%.
The UK government confirmed its continued 
funding of the Help to Grow: Management program 
launched in 2021 to help small businesses develop a 
growth action plan. In response to the cost-of-doing-
business crisis, the government introduced the Energy 
Bill Relief Scheme for all businesses and non-domestic 
contracts. The British Business Bank’s Start Up Loan 
program has delivered more than £1 billion of funding 
to over 105,000 businesses since 2012, and funding has 
been secured until 2025, which will continue to be a 
vital component of the entrepreneurial ecosystem in 
the UK.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
In 2020, the overall quality of the UK entrepreneurial 
environment, as assessed by its own national experts 
and as measured by the National Entrepreneurial 
Context Index (NECI), was rated as just satisfactory, 
with a score of 5.0. Since then, that overall quality 
score has declined slowly, moving further and further 
away from satisfactory, and reaching 4.6 in 2023, 
placing the United Kingdom 22nd of the 49 economies 
participating in the GEM National Expert Survey (NES).
This decline in overall score reflects the cumulative 
impact of declines in nine individual Entrepreneurial 
Framework Condition (EFC) scores from 2022, 
compared to increases in just four. Most of these 
changes were small, but the net effect was an overall 
reduction. The scores for the two entrepreneurial 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.finance EFCs have fallen over the last three years, with 
both rated less than sufficient in 2023, surely a major 
concern for a leading international finance centre.
The United Kingdom’s national experts rated 
its social support for women entrepreneurs as 
much less than satisfactory at 3.2, ranked 36th of 
the 49 economies. Access to resources for women 
entrepreneurs relative to men fared better, with a score 
of 5.8. This is much better than sufficient and 10th 
highest overall.
Since the pandemic, the United Kingdom has been 
part of an increasing group of high-income economies 
with an assessed overall entrepreneurial environment 
that has slipped from sufficient to less than sufficient. 
By 2023 there were 12 high-income economies with 
NECI scores of less than 5.0.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), almost one 
in four UK adults reported that their household income 
had declined in 2023, although this proportion has 
been slowly reducing from just under one in four in 
2020.
The United Kingdom has a reasonable profile for 
entrepreneurship, with more than one in two adults 
knowing someone who had recently started a business, 
or considering they had the skills and knowledge to 
do so themselves. Just under a half of adults saw good 
opportunities to start a business, but more than half of 
these would not start a business for fear it might fail. 
This fear of failure rate has been growing slowly, up 
from just four in 10 pre-pandemic in 2019. Nevertheless, 
the proportion of adults intending to start their own 
business in the next three years had also been growing 
slowly, from 8% in 2019 to 11% in 2023.
Many new entrepreneurs in the United Kingdom 
are outward-looking, with two in five having customers 
beyond the borders and three in five expecting to 
use more digital technologies in the next six months. 
Growth expectations are strong, with one in four new 
entrepreneurs anticipating employing at least another 
six people over the next five years. Finally, to build great 
wealth or very high income is the dominant motivation 
among new entrepreneurs, agreed by more than two 
out of three.
Institution
Lead institution
Aston Business School, Aston 
University
Type of institution
University
Website
https://www2.aston.ac.uk
Other institutions involved
Queen’s University BelfastUniversity of Glasgow
University of Edinburgh
University of Strathclyde
Ulster University
Team
Team leader
Prof. Mark Hart, PhD
Team members
Jonathan Levie
Tomasz Mickiewicz
Niels Bosma
Wendy FerrisNeha Prashar
Karen Bonner
Anastasia Ri
Samuel Mwaura
Sreevas Sahasranamam
Andy Loung
Funders
Department for Business and Trade 
(DBT)
Welsh Government
Hunter Centre for Entrepreneurship, 
University of Strathclyde
NatWest GroupDepartment for the Economy (NI)
Be the Business
Mastercard
Aston University
APS vendor
BMG Ltd, Birmingham, UK
Contact
mark.hart@aston.ac.uk
w.ferris@aston.ac.ukECONOMY PROFILE198 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level A average
(16 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)United States
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
4.2 (11/16)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.8 (13/16)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
5.0 (9/16)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
3.8 (16/16)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
3.6 (9/16)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
4.8 (10/16)E. Research and
Development Transfers
3.9 (16/16)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.6 (10/16)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
4.9 (11/16)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.2 (16/16)H. Physical
Infrastructure
6.8 (9/16)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
6.7 (4/16)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
4.9 (10/16)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 26.0 33
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago43.3 28=
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services46.1 28
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 51.5 12Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)4.2 14=
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 18.4 13
Always consider social impact 67.3 30
Always consider environmental impact 61.2 36
Industry (% TEA in business services) 16.9 27Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 63.7 9
To build great wealth or very high income 66.7 13
To continue a family tradition 35.0 16
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 62.5 30
Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 14.7 16 13.4 16.0
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)6.7 24= 5.9 7.6Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business44.5 39
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area53.8 26
It is easy to start a business 55.9 17
Personally have the skills and knowledge 49.0 38
Fear of failure (opportunity) 44.6 22
Entrepreneurial intentions 12.1 30United States
 QPopulation (2022): 333.3 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 76.4 thousand (World Bank)
199 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
The US economy was doing well in 2023, reflected by 
low unemployment, and with GDP having grown in 
all quarters since 2022 (at an annualized rate of just 
under 5%). However, inflation was showing some signs 
of starting to edge upwards again after having fallen to 
around 3%. Since February 2023, wage increases had 
outpaced inflation, raising living standards for those in 
work, but increasing business costs.
The focus of US policy has been for the Federal 
Reserve to increase interest rates to reduce inflation, 
but also making access to capital more expensive 
for entrepreneurs. However, the “Inflation Reduction 
Act” has created new opportunities in green and 
environmental sectors.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Economic growth in the United States has been 
stable, despite some deterioration in Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs), with expert scores 
for both finance EFCs (sufficiency and accessibility) 
falling sharply, as did the score for Commercial and 
Professional Infrastructure. Partly as a result, only four 
EFCs scored as sufficient (score of ≥5) in 2023, down 
from six in 2022. Both finance framework condition 
scores fell to less than sufficient, as did the score for 
Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics, although Government 
Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy improved its score to 
just sufficient.
In 2019, experts rated the entrepreneurial 
environment in the United States as more than 
sufficient, with a National Entrepreneurial Context 
Index (NECI) score of 5.3, placing it 10th among all GEM 
participating economies. In three of the four years 
since, that overall score has fallen. In 2023, the score fell 
to 4.8, less than sufficient overall, with a rank of 16th. 
A number of other developed economies in Europe 
and North America also had overall entrepreneurial 
environment assessments that have shifted from 
sufficient to less than sufficient since 2022, including 
Norway, Sweden, Germany and Canada, with France 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.and Latvia coming close. This may simply mark the 
withdrawal of COVID-19-pandemic business support 
schemes, or may be an indication of the slow relative 
decline of once dominant economies.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
The United States has long been a bastion of 
entrepreneurial activity, with a level of Total early-
stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) in the high teens 
for at least the past five years (touching 20% in 2022, 
but falling back to just under 15% in 2023). Men are 
more likely than women to be starting or running a 
new business, but the difference is both small and 
narrowing. More than half of adults in the United 
States consider that there are good opportunities to 
start a business locally, while just under a half know 
someone who has recently started a new business, or 
consider themselves to have the skills and experience 
to do (but for the first time in the past five years, this 
proportion has fallen below around two-thirds). Over 
the same period, the proportion of adults who see 
good opportunities but would not start a business 
for fear it might fail has remained just over two in 
five. Meanwhile, just 12% of those adults not currently 
involved in entrepreneurial activity intend to start a 
business in the next three years.
More than three in five of those starting or running 
new businesses agreed with the motivations to make 
a difference in the world, to build great wealth or 
very high income, or to earn a living because jobs are 
scarce. Despite the large home market, three in 10 new 
entrepreneurs have customers outside of the United 
States, and job creation expectations are high, with 
the same proportion expecting to employ another five 
people or more over the next five years. However, the 
proportion of those new entrepreneurs expecting to 
use more digital technology to sell their products has 
fallen since this question was introduced in 2021, from 
61% to 46%. It may be that digitalization levels were 
already high.
Overall, the results are consistent with the country’s 
reputation for providing a favourable environment 
for entrepreneurship, although the gradual drift in 
framework conditions may present some concerns.
Institution
Lead institution
Babson CollegeType of institution
Business School
Website
https://www.babson.edu
Team
Team leader
Jeff Shay, PhD
Prof. Donna Kelley, PhDTeam members
Mahdi Majbouri (Technical Director)
Candida Brush
Andrew Corbett
Caroline Daniels
Smaiyra Million
Clare Currie
Funders
Babson CollegeAPS vendor
Qualtrix
Contact
jshay1@babson.edu
dkelley@babson.eduECONOMY PROFILE200 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level B average
(19 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Uruguay
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
3.7 (17/19)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
3.4 (13/19)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
4.6 (9/19)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
5.4 (3/19)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.4 (13/19)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.2 (6/19)E. Research and
Development Transfers
4.2 (5/19)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
5.3 (9/19)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
2.7 (19/19)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
4.2 (9/19)H. Physical
Infrastructure
7.7 (2/19)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
4.4 (11/19)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
3.3 (18/19)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 39.7 16
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago45.1 25
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services65.0 10
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 42.3 23Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 26.2 5 23.9 28.8
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)7.3 20 4.8 10.0Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 39.7 29=
To build great wealth or very high income 51.1 31
To continue a family tradition 32.7 18=
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 69.2 20
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)6.3 8
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 2.8 35
Always consider social impact 86.1 7
Always consider environmental impact 90.8 2
Industry (% TEA in business services) 8.9 32Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business60.2 17
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area58.3 23
It is easy to start a business 39.9 32
Personally have the skills and knowledge 69.8 14
Fear of failure (opportunity) 51.7 12
Entrepreneurial intentions 35.8 11Uruguay
 QPopulation (2022): 3.4 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 28.8 thousand (World Bank)201 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
GDP in the Uruguay economy was expected to grow 
by just 1% in 2023, with inflation falling to 4%, its lowest 
level for almost two decades.
A number of Uruguay’s ministries have recently 
been coordinating the “Uruguay Innovation Hub”, 
a strategic plan to strengthen the entrepreneurial 
ecosystem in science, technology and innovation. Both 
the National Development Agency and the National 
Research and Innovation Agency have been working 
together to develop incubators, accelerators and 
financing plans for innovative entrepreneurship.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
In 2023, just four of Uruguay’s Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) were scored as 
sufficient, leaving nine as less than sufficient. As in 
many economies, Uruguay’s weakest condition was 
Entrepreneurial Education at School, and its strongest 
was Physical Infrastructure. Both improved in score 
in 2023, with Physical Infrastructure ranked third of 
the 45 economies in the 2023 National Expert Survey 
(NES). However, eight conditions had lower scores in 
2023 than in 2022, with just four improving their scores. 
The largest fall was for Commercial and Professional 
Infrastructure, and the largest rise was for Ease of 
Entry: Market Dynamics. Despite this increase, Ease 
of Entry: Market Dynamics still ranked last among 
the 45 GEM economies. All government-related 
EFCs (Government Policy: Support and Relevance, 
Government Policy: Taxes and Bureaucracy, and 
Government Entrepreneurial Programs), scored lower 
in 2023.
In 2023, the National Entrepreneurial Context Index 
(NECI) score for Uruguay declined slightly from 4.5 
to 4.4. There is much to do to improve Uruguay’s 
entrepreneurial environment, and Entrepreneurial 
Education at School would be a good place to start.
National experts assessed the quality of social 
support for women entrepreneurs, and their access 
to resources compared to their male counterparts 
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.(new questions for 2023). Uruguay scored 3.6 for social 
support, ranked 25th, and better at 4.8 for equal access 
to resources, but ranked lower at 33rd.
2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
In the GEM Adult Population Survey (APS), two in 
five adults in Uruguay reported that their household 
income had fallen in 2023, a substantial proportion, but 
one that has been reducing steadily since the three in 
five of 2020.
Uruguay is part of the group of Latin America 
& Caribbean economies cementing the 
region’s emerging reputation as a hothouse for 
entrepreneurial activity, with Uruguay forming the 
fifth of the top five in GEM 2023 for levels of new 
entrepreneurial activity, all from this region. Just over 
one in four adults in Uruguay was starting or running 
a new business, with men slightly more likely than 
women to be doing so, but the difference was small. 
Established Business Ownership was a lot lower, at 
just over 7%, so Uruguay had more than three people 
starting a new business for each person owning an 
established one.
Not surprisingly, given its high level of activity, 
around three in five adults knew someone who had 
recently started their own business, with just a little 
less seeing good opportunities to start a business 
locally. Seven out of 10 adults considered themselves 
to have the skills and experience to start their own 
business, although one in two of those seeing good 
opportunities would not start a business for fear it 
might fail. Despite this, more than one in three adults 
not already doing so intended to start their own 
business within the next three years, the fourth highest 
proportion in Level B.
Seven out of 10 new entrepreneurs agreed with the 
motivation to earn a living because jobs are scarce, 
while two out of three expected to use more digital 
technology in the next six months. Nearly one in four 
expected to employ another six or more people over 
the next five years, despite just one in eight having 
customers beyond Uruguay.
Institution
Lead institution
IEEM Business School, University of 
Montevideo
Type of institution
University
Website
https://www.ieem.edu.uy/en
Team
Team leader
Professor Leonardo Veiga, PhDTeam members
Santiago Perera
Santiago Sena
Funders
ANDE
COUSAAPS vendor
Equipos Mori
Contact
lveiga@um.edu.uyECONOMY PROFILE202 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global Report
EXPERT RATINGS OF THE ENTREPRENEURIAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS
EFCs scale:
0 = very inadequate 
insufficient status, 
10 = very adequate 
sufficient status. Rank 
recorded in brackets An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with 
another economy or economies.
* Those reporting “somewhat decrease” or “strongly decrease”.Level C average
(14 GEM economies;
see Section 1.5 and Table 1.1)Venezuela
910
8
7
6
3
2
145A2. Ease of Access 
to Entrepreneurial Finance
2.2 (14/14)
B1. Government Policy: 
Support and Relevance
1.4 (14/14)
B2. Government Policy: 
Taxes and Bureaucracy
1.1 (14/14)
C. Government 
Entrepreneurial Programs
2.0 (14/14)
D1. Entrepreneurial
Education at School
2.1 (10/14)
D2. Entrepreneurial
Education Post-School
5.1 (5/14)E. Research and
Development Transfers
2.1 (14/14)F. Commercial and
Professional Infrastructure
3.6 (13/14)G1. Ease of Entry:
Market Dynamics
7.0 (1/14)G2. Ease of Entry:
Burdens and Regulation
3.0 (13/14)H. Physical
Infrastructure
4.4 (13/14)I. Social and
Cultural Norms
5.7 (5/14)A1. Entrepreneurial Finance
1.9 (14/14)Recent changes
% Adults Rank/46
Household income has decreased in 2023* 64.9 2
% TEA Rank/45
Starting a business is more difficult than a 
year ago48.8 15
Use more digital technology to sell products 
or services79.0 2
Pursue new opportunities due to pandemic 61.2 6Activity
% Adults Rank/46 % Female % Male
TEA (Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity) 22.7 9 21.4 24.0
EBO (Established 
Business Ownership)4.5 37 2.9 6.0Motivational
(somewhat or strongly agree)
% TEA Rank/45
To make a difference in the world 68.4 6
To build great wealth or very high income 53.7 26=
To continue a family tradition 52.5 5
To earn a living because jobs are scarce 91.0 2
Entrepreneurship impact
% Adults Rank/45
Job expectations (expecting to employ six or 
more people in five years’ time)4.7 13
% TEA Rank/45
International (25%+ revenue) 2.7 36
Always consider social impact 92.3 2
Always consider environmental impact 90.7 3
Industry (% TEA in business services) 4.1 40=Attitudes and perceptions
% Adults Rank/46
Know someone who has started a new 
business62.0 12
Good opportunities to start a business in my 
area65.8 13
It is easy to start a business 45.9 27
Personally have the skills and knowledge 84.1 2
Fear of failure (opportunity) 30.3 43
Entrepreneurial intentions 49.6 4Venezuela
 QPopulation (2022): 28.3 million (UN)
 QGDP per capita (2022; PPP, international $): 17.5 thousand (World Bank)203 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2023/2024 Global ReportPOLICY ROADMAP
Real GDP in Venezuela is expected to have grown by 
4% in 2023, the third year of positive growth after seven 
years of often substantial decline (2014–2020). Inflation 
in 2023 is likely to exceed 300%, one of the highest 
rates in the world, but significantly lower than in recent 
years.
The government continues to implement the 2021 
Law for the Promotion and Development of New 
Enterprises, recognizing the right of individuals to start 
and run a business without hindrance.
2023 Framework Conditions Review1
Venezuela continues to have the most variable of 
Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs), with 
scores by its own national experts ranging from very 
poor (Government Policy: Support and Relevance, 
score = 1.1) to excellent (Ease of Entry: Market Dynamics, 
score = 7.0). In between, just three of 13 EFCs were 
assessed as sufficient or better (score ≥5.0): Social 
and Cultural Norms, Entrepreneurial Education 
Post-School, and Government Policy: Support and 
Relevance. Eight EFCs scored lower in 2023 than in 
2022, with just three scoring higher.
As a result, the assessed overall quality of the 
entrepreneurial environment in Venezuela declined 
slightly from the previous year, as measured by the 
National Entrepreneurial Context Index (NECI). In 
2023, Venezuela ranked 48th of the 49 participating 
economies, just above Iran.
National experts scored social support for 
women entrepreneurs at a lowly 2.6, but above the 
corresponding scores for five other economies (Iran, 
Cyprus, Brazil, Israel and Mexico). The availability of 
resources for women entrepreneurs compared to men 
scored better at 4.2, seventh from bottom of the 49 
economies.
1 A brief description of the GEM approach is given in the 
footnote on p. 107.2023 Entrepreneurial Activity Review
One reflection of the parlous state of the Venezuelan 
economy was that nearly two in three adults in the 
Adult Population Survey (APS) reported that their 
household income had fallen in 2023, although even 
that was an improvement on the four out of five adults 
reporting the same a year earlier.
Nevertheless, entrepreneurship continues to have 
a high profile, with three in five adults seeing good 
opportunities to start a business, while four out of five 
consider they have the skills and experience to do so 
themselves. This high level of personal confidence is 
confirmed by the relatively low proportion of those 
seeing good opportunities to start a business who 
would be deterred by fear of failure — just three in 
10. Perhaps as a result, nearly half of those adults not 
already engaged in entrepreneurship expect to start a 
business in the next three years.
The level of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity (TEA) in Venezuela in 2023 was 22.7% of adults, 
up from 15.9% a year earlier. The male rate (24.0%) was 
a little higher than the female rate (21.4%). However, 
the Established Business Ownership rate was just 
4.5%, implying that there are around five people 
starting or running a new business for each person 
running an established one. This points to substantial 
obstacles in sustaining new businesses, no doubt 
compounded by the relatively weak entrepreneurial 
environment.
Earning a living because jobs are scarce was the 
dominant motivation for new entrepreneurs, agreed 
by more than nine out of 10, followed by making a 
difference in the world, agreed by seven in 10. Most 
new entrepreneurs looked inwards for their customers, 
with just one in 10 having customers beyond 
Venezuela. However, four in five expected to use more 
digital technology in the next six months, while one 
in five expected to employ at least another six people 
over the next five years.
Institution
Lead institution
IESA UCAB
 
Type of institution
Business School
UniversityWebsite
https://www.iesa.edu.ve
https://www.ucab.edu.ve
Team
Team leader
Edwin Ojeda
Aramis RodriguezTeam members
Patricia Monteferrante
Gustavo García
Anitza Freites
Susana Chu
Luis Lauriño
Jenifer Campos
Luz Aimara Morales
Gabriela Ponce
Demetrio MarottaFunders
IESA
UCAB
APS vendor
N/A
Contact
edwin.ojeda@iesa.edu.ve
aramis.rodriguez@iesa.edu.vePART 4
Appendix 
Tables206 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportGEM Indicators
Knowing a Startup 
EntrepreneurPercentage of adults aged 18–64 who personally know someone who 
has started a business in the past two years.
Perceived Opportunities Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who agree that they see good 
opportunities to start a business within the next six months in the 
area in which they live.
Ease of Starting a 
BusinessPercentage of adults aged 18–64 who agree that it is easy to start a 
business in their country.
Perceived Capabilities Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who agree that they have the required 
knowledge, skills and experience to start a business.
Fear of Failure Rate Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who agree that they see good 
opportunities but would not start a business for fear it might fail.
Nascent 
Entrepreneurship RatePercentage of adults aged 18–64 who are currently nascent 
entrepreneurs, i.e. are actively involved in setting up a business they 
will own or co-own; this business has not yet paid salaries, wages or 
made any other payments to the owners for more than three months.
New Business 
Ownership RatePercentage of adults aged 18–64 who are currently owner-managers of 
a new business, i.e. who own and manage a running business that has 
paid salaries, wages or made any other payments to the owners for 
more than three months, but not more than 42 months (3.5 years).
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA)Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who are either a nascent 
entrepreneurs or owner-managers of a new business, i.e. the 
proportion of the adult population who are either starting or running 
a new business.
Established Business 
Ownership Rate (EBO)Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who are currently owner-managers of 
an established business, i.e. who are owning and managing a running 
business that has paid salaries, wages or made any other payments to 
the owners for over 42 months (3.5 years).
Business Services Percentage of TEA respondents involved in business services.
Consumer Services Percentage of TEA respondents involved in consumer services.
Entrepreneurial Employee 
Activity (EEA)Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who, as employees, have been 
involved in entrepreneurial activities such as developing or launching 
new goods or services, or setting up a new business unit, a new 
establishment, or a subsidiary in the last three years.
Sponsored Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who are involved in TEA and that 
business is part-owned with their employer.
Independent Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who are involved in TEA and that 
business is independently owned.
Motive for Starting a 
Business: “To make a 
difference in the world”Percentage of TEA respondents who agree that a reason for starting 
their business is “to make a difference in the world”.207 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportMotive for Starting a 
Business: “To build great 
wealth or very high 
income”Percentage of TEA respondents who agree that a reason for starting 
their business is “to build great wealth or a very high income”.
Motive for Starting a 
Business: “To continue a 
family tradition”Percentage of TEA respondents who agree that a reason for starting 
their business is “to continue a family tradition”.
Motive for Starting a 
Business: “To earn a living 
because jobs are scarce”Percentage of TEA respondents who agree that a reason for starting 
their business is “to earn a living because jobs are scarce”.
High Growth Expectation 
Entrepreneurial ActivityPercentage of adults aged 18–64 involved in TEA who expect to 
employ another six or more people five years from now.
Internationally Oriented 
Entrepreneurial ActivityPercentage of adults aged 18–64 involved in TEA who anticipate 25% 
or more revenue coming from outside their country.
Scope (local/national/
international)Percentage of adults aged 18–64 involved in TEA having customers 
only within their local area, only within their country, or those having 
international customers.
Product/Services Impact 
(local/national/global)Percentage adults aged 18–64 involved in TEA having products or 
services that are either new to the area, new to their country or new to 
the world. 
Technology/Procedures 
Impact (local/national/
global)Percentage of adults aged 18–64 involved in TEA having technology or 
procedures that are either new to the area, new to their country or new 
to the world. 
Informal Investment Percentage of adults aged 18–64 investing in someone else’s new 
business in the last three years.
Business Exit Rate Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who have exited a business in 
the past 12 months, either by selling, shutting down or otherwise 
discontinuing an owner/management relationship with that business.
Exit, Business Continues Percentage of adults aged 18–64 who have exited a business in the 
past 12 months and that business has continued.
Exit, Business Does Not 
ContinuePercentage of adults aged 18–64 who have exited a business in the 
past 12 months and that business has not continued.
Household Income 
ChangePercentage of adults aged 18–64 who reported that their household 
income had somewhat or strongly decreased.
PANDEMIC-RELATED INDICATORS
Knowing an Entrepreneur 
Who Stopped a BusinessPercentage of adults aged 18–64 who know someone who has stopped 
a business because of the pandemic.
Knowing an Entrepreneur 
Who Started a BusinessPercentage of adults aged 18–64 who know someone who has started 
a business because of the pandemic.
Pandemic Opportunities Percentage of TEA respondents who agree or strongly agree that the 
pandemic has provided new opportunities they wish to pursue.208 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportIncome 
group1Strongly 
decreaseSomewhat 
decreaseNo substantial 
changeSomewhat 
increase Strongly increase
Brazil C 19.1 18.3 39.5 20.5 2.7
Canada A 9.4 20.5 47.3 18.1 4.6
Chile B 18.4 24.0 34.3 20.7 2.6
China C 8.3 38.3 42.0 10.5 0.8
Colombia C 10.9 25.9 29.4 29.1 4.7
Croatia B 6.0 10.8 25.8 50.2 7.1
Cyprus B 13.9 16.2 50.5 16.5 3.0
Ecuador C 23.0 28.5 39.9 8.0 0.7
Estonia B 11.5 16.3 41.0 28.7 2.6
France A 7.5 14.8 41.6 25.9 10.2
Germany A 4.1 23.0 47.8 18.2 7.0
Greece B 22.0 28.0 42.5 6.4 1.1
Guatemala C 12.7 26.1 33.0 21.8 6.4
Hungary B 8.8 22.5 41.4 24.1 3.3
India C 10.4 40.2 33.8 14.3 1.3
Iran C 12.6 28.0 57.1 1.9 0.3
Israel B 7.9 16.9 52.0 20.9 2.3
Italy A 8.4 21.2 52.8 15.5 2.1
Jordan C 22.3 27.2 42.7 7.2 0.6
Latvia B 7.6 13.0 48.0 26.7 4.7
Lithuania B 7.4 28.3 45.4 16.5 2.5
Luxembourg A 9.0 18.6 37.4 31.6 3.3
Mexico C 14.3 29.5 31.9 18.3 6.1
Morocco C 14.9 27.4 48.7 8.7 0.3
Netherlands A 5.2 15.8 46.7 28.2 4.1
Norway A 3.1 8.8 51.4 31.2 5.5
Oman B 5.2 13.8 69.2 11.1 0.6
Panama B 20.5 32.8 25.5 16.9 4.3Table A1. Changes in household income in 2023 (% of adults aged 18–64 )
1 Income groups are explained on p. 30.209 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportIncome 
group1Strongly 
decreaseSomewhat 
decreaseNo substantial 
changeSomewhat 
increase Strongly increase
Brazil C 19.1 18.3 39.5 20.5 2.7
Canada A 9.4 20.5 47.3 18.1 4.6
Chile B 18.4 24.0 34.3 20.7 2.6
China C 8.3 38.3 42.0 10.5 0.8
Colombia C 10.9 25.9 29.4 29.1 4.7
Croatia B 6.0 10.8 25.8 50.2 7.1
Cyprus B 13.9 16.2 50.5 16.5 3.0
Ecuador C 23.0 28.5 39.9 8.0 0.7
Estonia B 11.5 16.3 41.0 28.7 2.6
France A 7.5 14.8 41.6 25.9 10.2
Germany A 4.1 23.0 47.8 18.2 7.0
Greece B 22.0 28.0 42.5 6.4 1.1
Guatemala C 12.7 26.1 33.0 21.8 6.4
Hungary B 8.8 22.5 41.4 24.1 3.3
India C 10.4 40.2 33.8 14.3 1.3
Iran C 12.6 28.0 57.1 1.9 0.3
Israel B 7.9 16.9 52.0 20.9 2.3
Italy A 8.4 21.2 52.8 15.5 2.1
Jordan C 22.3 27.2 42.7 7.2 0.6
Latvia B 7.6 13.0 48.0 26.7 4.7
Lithuania B 7.4 28.3 45.4 16.5 2.5
Luxembourg A 9.0 18.6 37.4 31.6 3.3
Mexico C 14.3 29.5 31.9 18.3 6.1
Morocco C 14.9 27.4 48.7 8.7 0.3
Netherlands A 5.2 15.8 46.7 28.2 4.1
Norway A 3.1 8.8 51.4 31.2 5.5
Oman B 5.2 13.8 69.2 11.1 0.6
Panama B 20.5 32.8 25.5 16.9 4.3210 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTable A1 (continued)
Income 
group1Strongly 
decreaseSomewhat 
decreaseNo substantial 
changeSomewhat 
increase Strongly increase
Poland B 11.7 35.3 34.0 16.8 2.1
Puerto Rico B 13.7 23.0 41.2 18.3 3.7
Qatar A 8.0 16.1 59.4 13.5 2.9
Republic of Korea A 0.7 33.9 44.3 21.1 0.0
Romania B 5.1 13.5 59.0 20.9 1.6
Saudi Arabia A 3.1 16.4 49.6 28.2 2.7
Slovak Republic B 12.7 23.5 41.9 19.2 2.6
Slovenia A 4.4 14.6 49.1 28.6 3.2
South Africa C 32.4 25.3 26.5 8.4 7.3
Spain B 12.5 21.6 57.5 6.8 1.6
Sweden A 7.4 18.1 38.2 31.7 4.5
Switzerland A 8.0 19.1 44.5 26.1 2.4
Thailand C 11.4 29.5 42.2 15.9 1.0
Ukraine C 35.2 36.4 18.6 8.0 1.7
United Kingdom A 9.0 15.5 64.6 7.9 3.0
United States A 9.3 16.7 47.4 23.0 3.5
Uruguay B 15.0 24.7 37.7 18.5 4.1
Venezuela C 34.8 30.1 18.4 12.9 3.8211 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportIncome 
group1Strongly 
decreaseSomewhat 
decreaseNo substantial 
changeSomewhat 
increase Strongly increase
Poland B 11.7 35.3 34.0 16.8 2.1
Puerto Rico B 13.7 23.0 41.2 18.3 3.7
Qatar A 8.0 16.1 59.4 13.5 2.9
Republic of Korea A 0.7 33.9 44.3 21.1 0.0
Romania B 5.1 13.5 59.0 20.9 1.6
Saudi Arabia A 3.1 16.4 49.6 28.2 2.7
Slovak Republic B 12.7 23.5 41.9 19.2 2.6
Slovenia A 4.4 14.6 49.1 28.6 3.2
South Africa C 32.4 25.3 26.5 8.4 7.3
Spain B 12.5 21.6 57.5 6.8 1.6
Sweden A 7.4 18.1 38.2 31.7 4.5
Switzerland A 8.0 19.1 44.5 26.1 2.4
Thailand C 11.4 29.5 42.2 15.9 1.0
Ukraine C 35.2 36.4 18.6 8.0 1.7
United Kingdom A 9.0 15.5 64.6 7.9 3.0
United States A 9.3 16.7 47.4 23.0 3.5
Uruguay B 15.0 24.7 37.7 18.5 4.1
Venezuela C 34.8 30.1 18.4 12.9 3.8212 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTable A2. Entrepreneurial activity (% of adults aged 18–64)
An equals sign (=) indicates that the ranking position is tied with another economy or economies
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
ActivityEstablished Business 
Ownership Informal investment
Score Rank/46 Score Rank/46 Score Rank/46
Brazil 18.6 13 11.9 8 9.3 5
Canada 19.8 11 7.8 16= 6.0 9
Chile 31.1 4 5.3 31 22.8 1
China 6.8 40= 4.2 39= 4.4 19=
Colombia 23.6 7= 3.4 44 2.7 36
Croatia 13.2 20= 5.2 32= 3.0 32=
Cyprus 11.0 25 8.2 14 3.5 29
Ecuador 32.7 1 24.0 1 3.1 30=
Estonia 13.1 20= 7.9 15 4.1 22
France 10.8 26 4.6 36 5.8 11=
Germany 7.7 37 4.1 41 4.0 23
Greece 6.7 42= 14.7 3 2.6 37
Guatemala 32.4 2 13.2 6 10.7 3
Hungary 9.9 31 7.4 19 2.0 42
India 12.0 22 12.4 7 2.8 34=
Iran 9.8 32 9.8 12 3.1 30=
Israel 8.7 35 3.5 43 1.8 43=
Italy 8.3 36 7.8 16= 1.8 43=
Jordan 15.7 15 7.2 21 10.0 4
Latvia 14.3 17= 10.7 11 4.8 17
Lithuania 6.7 42= 14.6 4 3.9 24
Luxembourg 9.7 33 4.2 39= 6.5 8
Mexico 16.8 14 3.2 45= 2.3 40
Morocco 6.3 44 6.8 23 4.2 21
Netherlands 13.7 19 6.9 22 5.8 11=
Norway 6.9 39 7.6 18 5.3 14=
Oman 10.6 28 3.2 45= 3.6 26=
Panama 31.3 3 5.1 34= 6.6 7213 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial 
ActivityEstablished Business 
Ownership Informal investment
Score Rank/46 Score Rank/46 Score Rank/46
Poland 2.6 46 11.6 10 2.5 38
Puerto Rico 22.3 10 6.0 27 3.0 32=
Qatar 14.3 17= 4.4 38 5.9 10
Republic of Korea 10.2 30 19.7 2 2.1 41
Romania 5.9 45 5.1 34= 0.5 45
Saudi Arabia 25.3 6 13.6 5 19.9 2
Slovak Republic 10.8 27 4.0 42 3.7 25
Slovenia 7.1 38 8.8 13 3.6 26=
South Africa 11.1 24 5.9 28 3.6 26=
Spain 6.8 40= 6.7 24= 2.8 34=
Sweden 9.3 34 5.5 30 5.3 14=
Switzerland 10.3 29 5.8 29 8.4 6
Thailand 23.6 7= 11.8 9 5.4 13
Ukraine 19.6 12 5.2 32= – –
United Kingdom 11.8 23 6.3 26 2.4 39
United States 14.7 16 6.7 24= 4.5 18
Uruguay 26.2 5 7.3 20 5.1 16
Venezuela 22.7 9 4.5 37 4.4 19=214 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportKnowing someone 
who has started 
a business in the 
past two years“There are good 
opportunities to 
start a business 
in the area 
where I live”“In my country, 
it is easy to start 
a business”“You personally 
have the knowledge, 
skills and experience 
required to start 
a business”“You see good 
opportunities, but 
would not start a 
business for fear 
it might fail” (% of 
those seeing good 
opportunities) “Are you expecting 
to start a business 
in the next three 
years?”*
Brazil 70.9 65.4 43.1 65.9 46.9 48.7
Canada 51.6 62.6 63.7 56.7 54.6 14.3
Chile 72.6 59.4 49.9 75.7 40.9 53.1
China 56.1 69.2 31.4 55.8 64.5 5.6
Colombia 72.4 60 46.2 72.2 34.9 18.5
Croatia 71.8 64.1 40.9 73.6 45.9 21.6
Cyprus 66.9 39.8 50.0 60.5 53.3 21.3
Ecuador 65.6 54.3 46.5 75.1 31.7 57.4
Estonia 44.3 49.5 77.3 46.8 40.9 14.9
France 60.5 50.9 50.5 49.5 40.1 13.4
Germany 36.5 41.4 36.1 42.2 38.6 7.7
Greece 33.1 45.3 34.7 53.8 53.2 9.1
Guatemala 73.0 71.8 47.5 78.9 41.3 44.2
Hungary 51.0 28.2 45.8 38.3 34.4 8.2
India 56.8 82.5 81.1 81.6 62.8 19.5
Iran 53.5 26.5 13.6 60.9 23.8 17.6
Israel 68.4 47.1 15.6 36.9 40.8 15.1
Italy 46.3 33.7 17.7 50.8 48.5 10.4
Jordan 56.7 47.7 36.5 73.2 52.1 47
Latvia 43.9 43.0 32.7 52.4 47.0 17.9
Lithuania 70.0 61.2 42.3 57.1 34.6 11.7
Luxembourg 45.8 49.3 60.4 50.2 47.3 12.6
Mexico 55.3 61.5 50.3 69.2 46.1 24.6
Morocco 45.6 70.7 51.3 68.2 32.6 23.4
Netherlands 60.4 67.4 80.4 46.0 40.3 16.0
Norway 49.2 68.0 76.7 54.6 43.1 9.3
Oman 60.5 68.7 56.8 72.9 38.1 66.0Table A3. Public attitudes and perceptions (% of adults aged 18–64 somewhat or 
strongly agree)215 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportKnowing someone 
who has started 
a business in the 
past two years“There are good 
opportunities to 
start a business 
in the area 
where I live”“In my country, 
it is easy to start 
a business”“You personally 
have the knowledge, 
skills and experience 
required to start 
a business”“You see good 
opportunities, but 
would not start a 
business for fear 
it might fail” (% of 
those seeing good 
opportunities) “Are you expecting 
to start a business 
in the next three 
years?”*
Brazil 70.9 65.4 43.1 65.9 46.9 48.7
Canada 51.6 62.6 63.7 56.7 54.6 14.3
Chile 72.6 59.4 49.9 75.7 40.9 53.1
China 56.1 69.2 31.4 55.8 64.5 5.6
Colombia 72.4 60 46.2 72.2 34.9 18.5
Croatia 71.8 64.1 40.9 73.6 45.9 21.6
Cyprus 66.9 39.8 50.0 60.5 53.3 21.3
Ecuador 65.6 54.3 46.5 75.1 31.7 57.4
Estonia 44.3 49.5 77.3 46.8 40.9 14.9
France 60.5 50.9 50.5 49.5 40.1 13.4
Germany 36.5 41.4 36.1 42.2 38.6 7.7
Greece 33.1 45.3 34.7 53.8 53.2 9.1
Guatemala 73.0 71.8 47.5 78.9 41.3 44.2
Hungary 51.0 28.2 45.8 38.3 34.4 8.2
India 56.8 82.5 81.1 81.6 62.8 19.5
Iran 53.5 26.5 13.6 60.9 23.8 17.6
Israel 68.4 47.1 15.6 36.9 40.8 15.1
Italy 46.3 33.7 17.7 50.8 48.5 10.4
Jordan 56.7 47.7 36.5 73.2 52.1 47
Latvia 43.9 43.0 32.7 52.4 47.0 17.9
Lithuania 70.0 61.2 42.3 57.1 34.6 11.7
Luxembourg 45.8 49.3 60.4 50.2 47.3 12.6
Mexico 55.3 61.5 50.3 69.2 46.1 24.6
Morocco 45.6 70.7 51.3 68.2 32.6 23.4
Netherlands 60.4 67.4 80.4 46.0 40.3 16.0
Norway 49.2 68.0 76.7 54.6 43.1 9.3
Oman 60.5 68.7 56.8 72.9 38.1 66.0
* Strictly, this is the percentage of adults excluding those already engaged in entrepreneurial activity.216 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportKnowing someone 
who has started 
a business in the 
past two years“There are good 
opportunities to 
start a business 
in the area 
where I live”“In my country, 
it is easy to start 
a business”“You personally 
have the knowledge, 
skills and experience 
required to start 
a business”“You see good 
opportunities, but 
would not start a 
business for fear 
it might fail” (% of 
those seeing good 
opportunities) “Are you expecting 
to start a business 
in the next three 
years?”*
Panama 48.8 52.5 53.8 76.6 41.4 43.9
Poland 46.1 73.6 83.2 48.0 52.3 2.6
Puerto Rico 68.0 63.3 27.9 71.4 42.7 27.0
Qatar 53.1 68.7 62.4 68.0 42.7 47.4
Republic of Korea 37.9 37.9 38.7 55.4 26.8 24.9
Romania 45.5 55.7 36.0 52.6 58.1 5.8
Saudi Arabia 87.9 93.2 92.4 90.8 60.8 38.5
Slovak Republic 59.8 32.9 24.2 50.7 48.1 9.9
Slovenia 55.4 50.2 62.6 62.8 44.2 15.4
South Africa 39.0 64.1 61.9 69.2 59.5 7.5
Spain 48.3 30.7 29.9 53.2 46.2 9.6
Sweden 51.5 69.0 79.7 47.2 43.4 10.7
Switzerland 54.2 52.5 67.5 44.9 36.4 10.0
Thailand 22.5 79.4 78.1 76.5 48.0 30.1
Ukraine 60.6 37.3 38.9 57.2 47.3 48.5
United Kingdom 52.9 47.2 63.2 52.8 53.2 11.2
United States 44.5 53.8 55.9 49.0 44.6 12.1
Uruguay 60.2 58.3 39.9 69.8 51.7 35.8
Venezuela 62.0 65.8 45.9 84.1 30.3 49.6Table A3 (continued)217 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportKnowing someone 
who has started 
a business in the 
past two years“There are good 
opportunities to 
start a business 
in the area 
where I live”“In my country, 
it is easy to start 
a business”“You personally 
have the knowledge, 
skills and experience 
required to start 
a business”“You see good 
opportunities, but 
would not start a 
business for fear 
it might fail” (% of 
those seeing good 
opportunities) “Are you expecting 
to start a business 
in the next three 
years?”*
Panama 48.8 52.5 53.8 76.6 41.4 43.9
Poland 46.1 73.6 83.2 48.0 52.3 2.6
Puerto Rico 68.0 63.3 27.9 71.4 42.7 27.0
Qatar 53.1 68.7 62.4 68.0 42.7 47.4
Republic of Korea 37.9 37.9 38.7 55.4 26.8 24.9
Romania 45.5 55.7 36.0 52.6 58.1 5.8
Saudi Arabia 87.9 93.2 92.4 90.8 60.8 38.5
Slovak Republic 59.8 32.9 24.2 50.7 48.1 9.9
Slovenia 55.4 50.2 62.6 62.8 44.2 15.4
South Africa 39.0 64.1 61.9 69.2 59.5 7.5
Spain 48.3 30.7 29.9 53.2 46.2 9.6
Sweden 51.5 69.0 79.7 47.2 43.4 10.7
Switzerland 54.2 52.5 67.5 44.9 36.4 10.0
Thailand 22.5 79.4 78.1 76.5 48.0 30.1
Ukraine 60.6 37.3 38.9 57.2 47.3 48.5
United Kingdom 52.9 47.2 63.2 52.8 53.2 11.2
United States 44.5 53.8 55.9 49.0 44.6 12.1
Uruguay 60.2 58.3 39.9 69.8 51.7 35.8
Venezuela 62.0 65.8 45.9 84.1 30.3 49.6
* Strictly, this is the percentage of adults excluding those already engaged in entrepreneurial activity.218 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business who 
agree/strongly agree that 
pandemic has provided 
new opportunities 
that they want to 
pursue/are pursuingThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who think starting a 
business is somewhat 
or much more difficult 
as a year agoThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who expect 
to use more digital 
technologies to sell 
products or services in 
the next six monthsThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who agree/strongly 
agree that they 
always consider the 
social implications 
of decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who agree/
strongly agree that 
they always consider 
the environmental 
implications of 
decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who are 
aware of the United 
Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
% TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO
Brazil 67.0 64.3 45.0 51.5 90.4 77.7 89.2 86.9 95.6 96.2 92.1 89.8
Canada 55.9 49.4 46.1 50.1 54.1 50.3 71.3 76.5 63.3 67.7 56.6 58.3
Chile 66.3 54.7 68.0 71.3 74.2 57.7 82.7 77.2 64.7 68.0 52.3 52.3
China 38.6 28.3 63.9 69.1 33.1 44.2 82.8 71.8 76.6 73.2 70.3 69.5
Colombia 34.4 42.7 48.4 59.2 60.7 55.4 64.4 64.9 42.5 47.7 34.4 45.2
Croatia 34.9 29.8 32.4 22.9 52.0 40.7 78.9 85.8 66.1 70.3 58.0 64.6
Cyprus 37.9 31.9 53.3 58.9 46.6 37.6 13.0 13.4 58.5 59.8 41.7 46.1
Ecuador 36.5 29.1 67.9 82.8 56.5 43.2 65.1 66.0 45.5 55.9 34.8 41.2
Estonia 28.8 18.1 34.6 32.4 37.5 19.2 54.9 56.8 41.0 41.4 23.9 19.9
France 39.3 23.0 33.4 33.4 36.0 17.5 66.6 56.4 32.5 51.5 24.4 26.0
Germany 48.0 26.2 45.2 50.4 41.3 21.7 72.8 70 49.7 60.8 53.1 44.6
Greece 29.2 14.5 36.4 45.8 44.5 28.5 71.3 73.1 65.6 66.7 48.8 45.9
Guatemala 45.6 35.0 59.3 62.5 77.1 63.7 93.2 89.3 61.7 73.1 49.2 55.8
Hungary 12.4 10.7 46.8 49.7 42.8 25.9 72.3 57.9 59.9 69.0 40.9 32.9
India 74.4 75.7 47.2 44.4 40.0 39.5 90.9 86.7 33.3 38.5 31.0 33.7
Iran 25.7 12.0 81.4 78.4 51.0 21.3 46.4 38.5 38.7 34.8 31.5 24.9
Israel 47.5 31.6 57.7 57.3 52.9 32.5 58.5 46.9 40.6 44.2 42.2 55.5
Italy 37.6 32.7 43.2 39.8 51.4 43.5 73.2 76.0 63.1 66.1 46.7 50.3
Jordan 29.2 26.2 66.6 79.6 45.6 36.3 79.6 74.3 43.0 48.9 37.0 50.0
Latvia 42.5 27.2 28.5 37.6 51.2 23.5 75.8 61.4 42.0 59.0 29.7 26.6
Lithuania 44.1 50.6 39.5 32.8 19.9 8.9 60.6 79.7 31.7 54.9 36.4 62.1
Luxembourg 48.3 43.7 57.9 56.4 57.3 45.4 73.6 69.1 65.8 70.7 53.5 56.3
Mexico 57.3 49.5 43.3 44.6 71.7 67.4 82.6 80.0 60.7 64.1 55.4 62.7
Morocco 25.0 14.1 56.3 46.0 54.2 27 62.7 60.5 30.0 33.6 34.8 36.4
Netherlands 43.1 44.6 33.3 31.2 28.7 21.3 60.6 62.4 44.3 55.5 45.1 40.2Table A4. Attitudes and perceptions of entrepreneurs: % of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) and % of Established Business Ownership (EBO)219 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business who 
agree/strongly agree that 
pandemic has provided 
new opportunities 
that they want to 
pursue/are pursuingThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who think starting a 
business is somewhat 
or much more difficult 
as a year agoThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who expect 
to use more digital 
technologies to sell 
products or services in 
the next six monthsThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who agree/strongly 
agree that they 
always consider the 
social implications 
of decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who agree/
strongly agree that 
they always consider 
the environmental 
implications of 
decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who are 
aware of the United 
Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
% TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO
Brazil 67.0 64.3 45.0 51.5 90.4 77.7 89.2 86.9 95.6 96.2 92.1 89.8
Canada 55.9 49.4 46.1 50.1 54.1 50.3 71.3 76.5 63.3 67.7 56.6 58.3
Chile 66.3 54.7 68.0 71.3 74.2 57.7 82.7 77.2 64.7 68.0 52.3 52.3
China 38.6 28.3 63.9 69.1 33.1 44.2 82.8 71.8 76.6 73.2 70.3 69.5
Colombia 34.4 42.7 48.4 59.2 60.7 55.4 64.4 64.9 42.5 47.7 34.4 45.2
Croatia 34.9 29.8 32.4 22.9 52.0 40.7 78.9 85.8 66.1 70.3 58.0 64.6
Cyprus 37.9 31.9 53.3 58.9 46.6 37.6 13.0 13.4 58.5 59.8 41.7 46.1
Ecuador 36.5 29.1 67.9 82.8 56.5 43.2 65.1 66.0 45.5 55.9 34.8 41.2
Estonia 28.8 18.1 34.6 32.4 37.5 19.2 54.9 56.8 41.0 41.4 23.9 19.9
France 39.3 23.0 33.4 33.4 36.0 17.5 66.6 56.4 32.5 51.5 24.4 26.0
Germany 48.0 26.2 45.2 50.4 41.3 21.7 72.8 70 49.7 60.8 53.1 44.6
Greece 29.2 14.5 36.4 45.8 44.5 28.5 71.3 73.1 65.6 66.7 48.8 45.9
Guatemala 45.6 35.0 59.3 62.5 77.1 63.7 93.2 89.3 61.7 73.1 49.2 55.8
Hungary 12.4 10.7 46.8 49.7 42.8 25.9 72.3 57.9 59.9 69.0 40.9 32.9
India 74.4 75.7 47.2 44.4 40.0 39.5 90.9 86.7 33.3 38.5 31.0 33.7
Iran 25.7 12.0 81.4 78.4 51.0 21.3 46.4 38.5 38.7 34.8 31.5 24.9
Israel 47.5 31.6 57.7 57.3 52.9 32.5 58.5 46.9 40.6 44.2 42.2 55.5
Italy 37.6 32.7 43.2 39.8 51.4 43.5 73.2 76.0 63.1 66.1 46.7 50.3
Jordan 29.2 26.2 66.6 79.6 45.6 36.3 79.6 74.3 43.0 48.9 37.0 50.0
Latvia 42.5 27.2 28.5 37.6 51.2 23.5 75.8 61.4 42.0 59.0 29.7 26.6
Lithuania 44.1 50.6 39.5 32.8 19.9 8.9 60.6 79.7 31.7 54.9 36.4 62.1
Luxembourg 48.3 43.7 57.9 56.4 57.3 45.4 73.6 69.1 65.8 70.7 53.5 56.3
Mexico 57.3 49.5 43.3 44.6 71.7 67.4 82.6 80.0 60.7 64.1 55.4 62.7
Morocco 25.0 14.1 56.3 46.0 54.2 27 62.7 60.5 30.0 33.6 34.8 36.4
Netherlands 43.1 44.6 33.3 31.2 28.7 21.3 60.6 62.4 44.3 55.5 45.1 40.2220 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business who 
agree/strongly agree that 
pandemic has provided 
new opportunities 
that they want to 
pursue/are pursuingThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who think starting a 
business is somewhat 
or much more difficult 
as a year agoThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who expect 
to use more digital 
technologies to sell 
products or services in 
the next six monthsThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who agree/strongly 
agree that they 
always consider the 
social implications 
of decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who agree/
strongly agree that 
they always consider 
the environmental 
implications of 
decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who are 
aware of the United 
Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
% TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO
Norway 28.1 33.9 48.1 50.7 47.2 29.4 50.2 63.1 40.0 51.6 25.0 27.2
Oman 40.4 29.2 34.6 40.4 63.1 64.9 63.8 49.5 52.9 53.2 47.3 59.3
Panama 56.4 56.9 56.5 61.2 76.6 70.5 83.7 86.5 67.5 86.7 64.8 78.1
Poland 37.9 32.8 31.0 11.8 43.7 20 85.9 92.2 55.7 70.2 52.2 77.4
Puerto Rico 63.8 55.2 49.5 54.1 77.5 60.4 89.4 83.3 61.1 67.8 61.8 63.3
Qatar 44.2 41.1 38.7 36.5 64.6 55.1 82.2 84.4 46.9 55.0 47.4 53.6
Republic of Korea 6.4 2.3 51.3 66.2 11.9 13.7 66.4 49.6 53.7 52.2 28.6 27.3
Romania 41.5 38.0 38.8 43.8 39.6 15.1 84.0 73.8 60.6 45.2 55.6 34.0
Saudi Arabia 64.0 74.4 12.3 27.5 77.6 80.1 85.3 88.3 67.2 80.4 68.3 80.3
Slovak Republic 24.5 24.5 46.1 58.3 40.2 26.9 80.3 79.5 57.5 55.9 38.1 31.0
Slovenia 43.7 36.6 29.9 18.4 47.0 39.0 74.0 89.8 40.3 54.5 35.1 26.7
South Africa 44.6 52.8 44.6 42.9 61.3 58.0 68.4 73.1 53.6 65.5 56.0 67.1
Spain 41.0 24.9 46.8 50.9 44.6 26.9 60.1 62.2 52.0 57.3 40.3 32.5
Sweden 33.9 26.7 25.6 22.0 39.7 24.7 60.1 48.8 53.4 50.7 36.8 17.7
Switzerland 33.7 34.5 30.5 25.6 31.0 29.1 70.9 67.3 64.5 70.1 49.4 46.5
Thailand 60.1 39.5 48.0 52.6 70.7 44.1 87.4 74.4 65.9 57.7 60.6 59.6
United Kingdom 55.4 25.6 50.1 56.3 61.5 28.9 80.8 70.7 47.0 60.7 35.1 36.4
United States 51.5 25.5 43.3 37.8 46.1 27.7 67.3 37.9 55.5 35.5 45.4 28.4
Uruguay 42.3 36.7 45.1 51.9 65.0 42.7 86.1 79.9 56.1 64.3 48.4 61.4
Venezuela 61.2 43.5 48.8 51.8 79.0 74.5 92.3 89.6 46.8 58.1 45.2 58.2Table A4 (continued)221 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business who 
agree/strongly agree that 
pandemic has provided 
new opportunities 
that they want to 
pursue/are pursuingThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who think starting a 
business is somewhat 
or much more difficult 
as a year agoThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who expect 
to use more digital 
technologies to sell 
products or services in 
the next six monthsThe % of those starting 
or running a new or 
established business 
who agree/strongly 
agree that they 
always consider the 
social implications 
of decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who agree/
strongly agree that 
they always consider 
the environmental 
implications of 
decisionsThe % of those 
starting or running 
a new or established 
business who are 
aware of the United 
Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
% TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO % TEA % EBO
Norway 28.1 33.9 48.1 50.7 47.2 29.4 50.2 63.1 40.0 51.6 25.0 27.2
Oman 40.4 29.2 34.6 40.4 63.1 64.9 63.8 49.5 52.9 53.2 47.3 59.3
Panama 56.4 56.9 56.5 61.2 76.6 70.5 83.7 86.5 67.5 86.7 64.8 78.1
Poland 37.9 32.8 31.0 11.8 43.7 20 85.9 92.2 55.7 70.2 52.2 77.4
Puerto Rico 63.8 55.2 49.5 54.1 77.5 60.4 89.4 83.3 61.1 67.8 61.8 63.3
Qatar 44.2 41.1 38.7 36.5 64.6 55.1 82.2 84.4 46.9 55.0 47.4 53.6
Republic of Korea 6.4 2.3 51.3 66.2 11.9 13.7 66.4 49.6 53.7 52.2 28.6 27.3
Romania 41.5 38.0 38.8 43.8 39.6 15.1 84.0 73.8 60.6 45.2 55.6 34.0
Saudi Arabia 64.0 74.4 12.3 27.5 77.6 80.1 85.3 88.3 67.2 80.4 68.3 80.3
Slovak Republic 24.5 24.5 46.1 58.3 40.2 26.9 80.3 79.5 57.5 55.9 38.1 31.0
Slovenia 43.7 36.6 29.9 18.4 47.0 39.0 74.0 89.8 40.3 54.5 35.1 26.7
South Africa 44.6 52.8 44.6 42.9 61.3 58.0 68.4 73.1 53.6 65.5 56.0 67.1
Spain 41.0 24.9 46.8 50.9 44.6 26.9 60.1 62.2 52.0 57.3 40.3 32.5
Sweden 33.9 26.7 25.6 22.0 39.7 24.7 60.1 48.8 53.4 50.7 36.8 17.7
Switzerland 33.7 34.5 30.5 25.6 31.0 29.1 70.9 67.3 64.5 70.1 49.4 46.5
Thailand 60.1 39.5 48.0 52.6 70.7 44.1 87.4 74.4 65.9 57.7 60.6 59.6
United Kingdom 55.4 25.6 50.1 56.3 61.5 28.9 80.8 70.7 47.0 60.7 35.1 36.4
United States 51.5 25.5 43.3 37.8 46.1 27.7 67.3 37.9 55.5 35.5 45.4 28.4
Uruguay 42.3 36.7 45.1 51.9 65.0 42.7 86.1 79.9 56.1 64.3 48.4 61.4
Venezuela 61.2 43.5 48.8 51.8 79.0 74.5 92.3 89.6 46.8 58.1 45.2 58.2222 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTable A5. Entrepreneurial activity by age, gender and education
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by gender Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
by genderTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by % of age groupLevel of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) for graduates and 
for non-graduates
% Male % Female % Male % Female % 18–34 % 35–64% of 
graduates% of non-
graduates
Brazil 22.8 14.7 15.9 8.0 7.0 15.2 22.3 17.4
Canada 24.2 15.4 9.0 6.5 8.0 7.6 19.3 21.0
Chile 32.0 30.2 5.5 5.0 1.9 7.7 32.1 27.5
China 6.3 7.3 5.4 2.9 2.7 5.0 9.2 4.8
Colombia 20.7 26.1 4.3 2.5 2.2 4.2 22.9 24.3
Croatia 16.4 9.9 6.6 3.8 1.8 6.6 15.4 11.7
Cyprus 14.5 7.6 9.9 6.4 3.3 11.1 11.7 10.0
Ecuador 31.9 33.4 26.8 21.1 14.7 33.4 35.8 31.9
Estonia 16.2 9.9 9.7 6.1 3.2 10.2 15.3 10.3
France 12.5 9.0 5.9 3.3 1.9 5.9 12.6 7.6
Germany 9.3 6.0 5.5 2.7 2.2 5.0 10.5 5.8
Greece 7.5 5.9 16.4 13.0 13.1 15.8 7.8 5.6
Guatemala 36.2 28.8 16.8 9.8 7.6 19.9 40.5 31.7
Hungary 12.7 7.1 9.7 5.1 2.7 9.7 12.6 8.5
India 14.6 9.3 18.0 6.6 11.1 13.8 14.2 9.3
Iran 10.7 8.8 13.8 5.9 4.0 15.2 11.0 7.8
Israel 9.9 7.7 3.5 3.5 1.2 5.1 8.7 8.8
Italy 10.3 6.3 11.0 4.5 4.1 9.2 12.5 6.5
Jordan 19.9 10.7 10.6 3.2 4.7 10.1 19.8 14.4
Latvia 16.5 12.2 13.8 7.5 5.9 12.7 17.4 11.4
Lithuania 6.1 7.2 16.5 12.7 7.3 17.8 7.1 5.9
Luxembourg 10.6 8.7 5.7 2.6 4.2 4.2 12.0 6.9
Mexico 17.7 16.1 3.7 2.7 2.6 3.6 24.6 13.4
Morocco 8.1 4.6 10.8 3.0 2.8 12.0 6.0 6.4
Netherlands 15.2 12.2 9.2 4.7 6.6 7.1 14.1 13.6
Norway 8.8 4.9 8.2 6.9 2.4 10.5 7.4 6.1
Oman 13.0 8.2 3.8 2.5 2.6 3.9 10.5 10.9223 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by gender Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
by genderTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by % of age groupLevel of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) for graduates and 
for non-graduates
% Male % Female % Male % Female % 18–34 % 35–64% of 
graduates% of non-
graduates
Brazil 22.8 14.7 15.9 8.0 21.9 16.4 22.3 17.4
Canada 24.2 15.4 9.0 6.5 31.4 13.6 19.3 21.0
Chile 32.0 30.2 5.5 5.0 31.9 30.5 32.1 27.5
China 6.3 7.3 5.4 2.9 8.9 5.7 9.2 4.8
Colombia 20.7 26.1 4.3 2.5 25.2 22.3 22.9 24.3
Croatia 16.4 9.9 6.6 3.8 19.2 10.7 15.4 11.7
Cyprus 14.5 7.6 9.9 6.4 11.5 10.7 11.7 10.0
Ecuador 31.9 33.4 26.8 21.1 34.1 31.2 35.8 31.9
Estonia 16.2 9.9 9.7 6.1 17.5 11.0 15.3 10.3
France 12.5 9.0 5.9 3.3 13.9 9.1 12.6 7.6
Germany 9.3 6.0 5.5 2.7 12.5 5.5 10.5 5.8
Greece 7.5 5.9 16.4 13.0 7.5 6.2 7.8 5.6
Guatemala 36.2 28.8 16.8 9.8 35.3 28.8 40.5 31.7
Hungary 12.7 7.1 9.7 5.1 12.0 8.8 12.6 8.5
India 14.6 9.3 18.0 6.6 12.7 11.2 14.2 9.3
Iran 10.7 8.8 13.8 5.9 12.9 6.9 11.0 7.8
Israel 9.9 7.7 3.5 3.5 9.4 8.3 8.7 8.8
Italy 10.3 6.3 11.0 4.5 11.7 6.9 12.5 6.5
Jordan 19.9 10.7 10.6 3.2 16.4 14.9 19.8 14.4
Latvia 16.5 12.2 13.8 7.5 22.3 10.9 17.4 11.4
Lithuania 6.1 7.2 16.5 12.7 11.3 4.6 7.1 5.9
Luxembourg 10.6 8.7 5.7 2.6 13.0 7.8 12.0 6.9
Mexico 17.7 16.1 3.7 2.7 18.3 15.7 24.6 13.4
Morocco 8.1 4.6 10.8 3.0 5.5 7.2 6.0 6.4
Netherlands 15.2 12.2 9.2 4.7 18.4 11.1 14.1 13.6
Norway 8.8 4.9 8.2 6.9 4.7 8.2 7.4 6.1
Oman 13.0 8.2 3.8 2.5 10.9 10.4 10.5 10.9224 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTable A5 (continued)
Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by gender Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
by genderTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by % of age groupLevel of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) for graduates and 
for non-graduates
% Male % Female % Male % Female % 18–34 % 35–64% of 
graduates% of non-
graduates
Panama 34.1 28.5 6.2 3.9 3.5 6.2 34.9 27.8
Poland 2.8 2.4 12.4 10.9 2.6 15.8 2.8 2.2
Puerto Rico 24.8 20.0 8.5 3.8 3.8 7.3 24.9 15.1
Qatar 14.4 13.8 4.9 3.0 2.6 6.1 15.0 11.8
Republic of Korea 12.7 7.7 24.3 14.9 8.5 24.7 10.9 9.3
Romania 6.8 4.9 6.3 3.9 3.7 5.7 6.9 1.7
Saudi Arabia 27.1 23.0 13.7 13.5 11.0 15.6 24.6 26.7
Slovak Republic 12.6 8.9 4.4 3.5 4.4 3.8 11.6 10.1
Slovenia 9.0 5.0 12.8 4.6 3.9 10.9 8.7 5.3
South Africa 12.7 9.7 7.9 4.1 4.4 7.3 13.8 9.7
Spain 7.5 6.1 7.4 6.0 2.1 8.6 7.8 5.7
Sweden 11.1 7.3 8.0 2.8 3.4 6.6 9.6 8.7
Switzerland 10.8 9.7 6.7 5.0 1.4 8.0 11.5 8.0
Thailand 22.8 24.5 13.3 10.3 5.4 15.5 34.6 14.4
United Kingdom 13.3 10.3 7.7 4.9 2.0 8.7 13.2 7.6
United States 16 13.4 7.6 5.9 4.0 8.3 14.9 14.4
Uruguay 28.8 23.9 10.0 4.8 4.4 9.3 22.4 26.1
Venezuela 24.0 21.4 6.0 2.9 2.4 6.0 27.8 20.4225 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by gender Established Business 
Ownership (EBO) 
by genderTotal early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) by % of age groupLevel of Total early-stage 
Entrepreneurial Activity 
(TEA) for graduates and 
for non-graduates
% Male % Female % Male % Female % 18–34 % 35–64% of 
graduates% of non-
graduates
Panama 34.1 28.5 6.2 3.9 32.9 30.2 34.9 27.8
Poland 2.8 2.4 12.4 10.9 4.8 1.6 2.8 2.2
Puerto Rico 24.8 20.0 8.5 3.8 31.2 17.0 24.9 15.1
Qatar 14.4 13.8 4.9 3.0 13.6 14.9 15.0 11.8
Republic of Korea 12.7 7.7 24.3 14.9 8.6 11.0 10.9 9.3
Romania 6.8 4.9 6.3 3.9 9.6 4.1 6.9 1.7
Saudi Arabia 27.1 23.0 13.7 13.5 23.9 26.4 24.6 26.7
Slovak Republic 12.6 8.9 4.4 3.5 18.5 7.1 11.6 10.1
Slovenia 9.0 5.0 12.8 4.6 10.0 5.8 8.7 5.3
South Africa 12.7 9.7 7.9 4.1 11.3 11.0 13.8 9.7
Spain 7.5 6.1 7.4 6.0 7.4 6.5 7.8 5.7
Sweden 11.1 7.3 8.0 2.8 12.1 7.6 9.6 8.7
Switzerland 10.8 9.7 6.7 5.0 9.1 10.9 11.5 8.0
Thailand 22.8 24.5 13.3 10.3 22.8 24.1 34.6 14.4
United Kingdom 13.3 10.3 7.7 4.9 15.2 9.8 13.2 7.6
United States 16 13.4 7.6 5.9 20.1 11.5 14.9 14.4
Uruguay 28.8 23.9 10.0 4.8 31.0 22.9 22.4 26.1
Venezuela 24.0 21.4 6.0 2.9 22.9 22.5 27.8 20.4226 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportBusiness-
oriented 
servicesConsumer-
oriented 
servicesExtractive 
sectorTransforming 
sector
Brazil 17.3 58 3.7 21.1
Canada 29.6 52.9 1.9 15.6
Chile 15.8 60.0 3.4 20.8
China 8.8 73.7 3.4 14.1
Colombia 3.9 79 1.7 15.4
Croatia 33.5 36.4 8.0 22.2
Cyprus 25.1 53.9 5.7 15.3
Ecuador 3.7 75.0 7.5 13.7
Estonia 22.9 44.2 6.2 26.7
France 32.6 47.4 2.6 17.4
Germany 31.6 55.3 3.9 9.2
Greece 22.5 52.4 6.1 19.0
Guatemala 4.1 78.8 3.9 13.1
Hungary 25.4 40.8 5.4 28.4
India 2.3 74.9 4.8 18.0
Iran 22.5 49.3 3.9 24.3
Israel 36.3 56.2 0.0 7.6
Italy 28.1 51.2 7.3 13.4
Jordan 7.2 69.0 3.4 20.4
Latvia 21.8 48.6 4.4 25.2
Lithuania 30.0 44.3 3.6 22.0
Luxembourg 28.9 53.9 4.1 13.1
Mexico 7.6 51 0.2 41.2
Morocco 4.4 70.1 7.1 18.4
Netherlands 23.6 53.2 2.6 20.5
Norway 33.9 40.0 9.1 17.0
Oman 7.7 62.3 1.4 28.6
Panama 11.2 65.4 6.3 17.1
Poland 21.7 53.6 3.4 21.3Table A6. Sector distribution of new entrepreneurial activity 
(% of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity)227 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportBusiness-
oriented 
servicesConsumer-
oriented 
servicesExtractive 
sectorTransforming 
sector
Puerto Rico 20.9 59.5 0.9 18.7
Qatar 19.0 59.4 0.9 20.7
Republic of Korea 15.9 57.4 1.9 24.7
Romania 13.6 51.3 8.6 26.5
Saudi Arabia 4.4 86.0 0.5 9.1
Slovak Republic 31.4 38.0 6.1 24.5
Slovenia 31.2 43.9 5.8 19.1
South Africa 3.6 73.9 1.2 21.4
Spain 34.5 48.0 2.7 14.8
Sweden 30.7 51.2 6.9 11.2
Switzerland 42.6 41.5 4.4 11.6
Thailand 4.3 70.3 5.8 19.7
United Kingdom 28.1 58.5 0.6 12.8
United States 16.9 62.3 4.2 16.6
Uruguay 8.9 57.0 9.6 24.6
Venezuela 4.1 68.9 5.0 22.0228 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportExiting rate PositiveNegative, 
not including 
COVID-19 
pandemicCOVID-19 
pandemic
Brazil 11.4 1.2 8.1 1.7
Canada 10.2 4.5 4.5 0.5
Chile 10.4 1.5 6.9 0.9
China 3.7 0.7 2.4 0.3
Colombia 4.8 1.1 3.0 0.3
Croatia 4.1 1.1 2.2 0.4
Cyprus 2.5 0.5 1.6 0.1
Ecuador 9.8 1.0 7.5 0.7
Estonia 4.0 1.2 2.2 0.3
France 3.6 1.2 1.7 0.4
Germany 2.7 1.0 1.6 0.1
Greece 2.1 0.8 1.2 0.1
Guatemala 8.0 0.8 6.1 0.7
Hungary 3.5 1.0 2.2 0.0
India 4.4 1.0 2.5 0.6
Iran 5.2 1.2 3.5 0.0
Israel 3.7 0.6 2.3 0.2
Italy 2.7 1.1 1.5 0.0
Jordan 10.6 0.5 9.5 0.6
Latvia 3.7 0.9 2.3 0.2
Lithuania 2.9 1.4 1.4 0.0
Luxembourg 4.4 1.3 2.4 0.2
Mexico 11.6 2.9 6.9 1.3
Morocco 5.2 0.8 3.8 0.2
Netherlands 6.3 2.6 2.8 0.3
Norway 3.2 1.4 0.9 0.0
Oman 13.0 2.8 5.5 1.4
Panama 9.9 2.4 5.3 1.4
Poland 3.4 0.7 1.5 1.2Table A7. Business exits, and reason for exit (positive, negative [non-COVID] and 
COVID-related), % of adults aged 18–64229 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportExiting rate PositiveNegative, 
not including 
COVID-19 
pandemicCOVID-19 
pandemic
Puerto Rico 4.7 1.0 1.8 0.8
Qatar 9.6 1.4 6.3 0.5
Republic of Korea 2.5 0.1 2.3 0.0
Romania 1.4 0.2 1.0 0.1
Saudi Arabia 8.4 3.0 4.9 0.4
Slovak Republic 3.1 0.7 1.9 0.4
Slovenia 3.5 1.7 1.2 0.1
South Africa 7.2 1.8 4.4 0.4
Spain 3.2 1.4 1.7 0.1
Sweden 4.3 1.8 1.7 0.1
Switzerland 3.5 1.7 1.1 0.4
Thailand 6.8 0.3 4.3 2.1
United Kingdom 3.2 0.7 1.8 0.4
United States 6.4 1.9 3.9 0.4
Uruguay 7.9 1.5 4.6 1.2
Venezuela 11.6 1.0 8.1 1.2230 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportJob creation expectationsThe % of adults 
(aged 18–64) 
starting or 
running a new 
business and 
anticipating 
25% or more 
revenue from 
outside their 
country The % of adults starting a new 
business with products or 
services that are either new 
to their area, new to their 
country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business using technology or processes 
that are either new to their area, new 
to their country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business having customers only within 
their local area, only within their country, 
and those having international customers
0 jobs 1–5 jobs6 or 
more 
jobsNew to 
their areaNew to 
their 
countryNew to 
the worldNew to 
their areaNew to their 
countryNew to the 
world Local only National International
Brazil 6.3 6.5 5.8 1.6 2.0 0.2 0.3 2.9 0.7 0.6 8.9 8.9 0.8
Canada 10.0 4.9 4.9 21.1 3.7 2.0 1.3 3.5 1.7 1.2 7.5 4.5 6.4
Chile 6.8 14.0 10.2 3.0 11.4 4.2 3.3 9.9 4.7 2.9 22.4 6.9 1.5
China 3.3 2.3 1.2 3.8 0.7 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.1 4.1 2.0 0.6
Colombia 5.0 13.5 5.1 2.0 5.0 1.2 0.2 4.7 1.4 0.2 10.6 10.5 2.0
Croatia 6.1 4.3 2.7 24.4 2.6 1.3 1.1 2.7 1.6 0.7 3.7 4.1 4.9
Cyprus 2.8 5.1 3.2 22.4 0.9 1.1 1.4 1.2 1.5 1.2 1.7 4.6 4.6
Ecuador 20.0 10.8 1.9 1.0 5.2 0.4 0.0 2.9 0.3 0.0 22.0 8.8 1.4
Estonia 5.9 5.0 2.1 29.6 1.2 1.1 0.6 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.4 4.7 6.8
France 4.7 3.5 2.5 17.1 2.4 0.8 1.0 2.0 0.8 1.0 3.9 3.0 3.6
Germany 4.3 1.7 1.6 23.9 1.3 0.6 0.3 1.2 0.6 0.3 2.3 2.0 3.1
Greece 2.9 3.0 0.8 20.0 0.9 0.4 0.2 1.3 0.5 0.1 2.6 1.1 2.8
Guatemala 5.0 19.0 8.3 1.4 11.2 1.1 0.5 11.2 0.9 0.8 18.1 13.3 1.0
Hungary 5.1 3.1 1.6 9.0 1.4 1.0 0.5 1.3 1.1 0.3 2.5 4.4 3.0
India 4.6 6.4 1.0 1.5 2.5 0.4 0.0 2.8 0.3 0.1 8.7 1.8 0.3
Iran 4.2 3.5 2.0 2.4 0.9 0.8 0.4 0.7 0.6 0.2 2.4 6.0 1.2
Israel 5.5 1.7 1.5 13.5 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.0 0.9 0.1 1.6 4.8 1.9
Italy 4.7 2.2 1.4 10.4 1.9 1.1 0.7 2.0 1.1 0.7 3.2 2.1 2.5
Jordan 5.8 7.6 2.2 5.8 2.3 0.5 0.0 2.1 0.7 0.1 4.8 8.5 2.3
Latvia 5.2 4.9 4.2 25.0 1.3 1.5 0.7 0.8 1.4 0.6 1.6 6.0 6.5
Lithuania 3.9 1.7 1.1 4.9 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.8 2.9 1.0
Luxembourg 3.4 3.9 2.4 39.7 1.8 1.6 0.4 1.8 1.7 0.5 0.9 2.8 5.3
Mexico 2.8 8.9 5.2 4.4 5.9 0.3 0.3 5.5 1.1 0.3 8.7 5.3 2.2
Morocco 3.5 1.7 1.1 2.2 0.9 0.1 0.0 0.9 0.1 0.0 3.5 1.6 0.3
Netherlands 7.0 4.6 2.1 17.8 2.5 1.9 0.5 2.3 1.7 0.3 3.0 5.7 4.7Table A8. Entrepreneurial expectations and scope (% of adults aged 18–64)231 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportJob creation expectationsThe % of adults 
(aged 18–64) 
starting or 
running a new 
business and 
anticipating 
25% or more 
revenue from 
outside their 
country The % of adults starting a new 
business with products or 
services that are either new 
to their area, new to their 
country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business using technology or processes 
that are either new to their area, new 
to their country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business having customers only within 
their local area, only within their country, 
and those having international customers
0 jobs 1–5 jobs6 or 
more 
jobsNew to 
their areaNew to 
their 
countryNew to 
the worldNew to 
their areaNew to their 
countryNew to the 
world Local only National International
Brazil 6.3 6.5 5.8 1.6 2.0 0.2 0.3 2.9 0.7 0.6 8.9 8.9 0.8
Canada 10.0 4.9 4.9 21.1 3.7 2.0 1.3 3.5 1.7 1.2 7.5 4.5 6.4
Chile 6.8 14.0 10.2 3.0 11.4 4.2 3.3 9.9 4.7 2.9 22.4 6.9 1.5
China 3.3 2.3 1.2 3.8 0.7 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.1 4.1 2.0 0.6
Colombia 5.0 13.5 5.1 2.0 5.0 1.2 0.2 4.7 1.4 0.2 10.6 10.5 2.0
Croatia 6.1 4.3 2.7 24.4 2.6 1.3 1.1 2.7 1.6 0.7 3.7 4.1 4.9
Cyprus 2.8 5.1 3.2 22.4 0.9 1.1 1.4 1.2 1.5 1.2 1.7 4.6 4.6
Ecuador 20.0 10.8 1.9 1.0 5.2 0.4 0.0 2.9 0.3 0.0 22.0 8.8 1.4
Estonia 5.9 5.0 2.1 29.6 1.2 1.1 0.6 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.4 4.7 6.8
France 4.7 3.5 2.5 17.1 2.4 0.8 1.0 2.0 0.8 1.0 3.9 3.0 3.6
Germany 4.3 1.7 1.6 23.9 1.3 0.6 0.3 1.2 0.6 0.3 2.3 2.0 3.1
Greece 2.9 3.0 0.8 20.0 0.9 0.4 0.2 1.3 0.5 0.1 2.6 1.1 2.8
Guatemala 5.0 19.0 8.3 1.4 11.2 1.1 0.5 11.2 0.9 0.8 18.1 13.3 1.0
Hungary 5.1 3.1 1.6 9.0 1.4 1.0 0.5 1.3 1.1 0.3 2.5 4.4 3.0
India 4.6 6.4 1.0 1.5 2.5 0.4 0.0 2.8 0.3 0.1 8.7 1.8 0.3
Iran 4.2 3.5 2.0 2.4 0.9 0.8 0.4 0.7 0.6 0.2 2.4 6.0 1.2
Israel 5.5 1.7 1.5 13.5 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.0 0.9 0.1 1.6 4.8 1.9
Italy 4.7 2.2 1.4 10.4 1.9 1.1 0.7 2.0 1.1 0.7 3.2 2.1 2.5
Jordan 5.8 7.6 2.2 5.8 2.3 0.5 0.0 2.1 0.7 0.1 4.8 8.5 2.3
Latvia 5.2 4.9 4.2 25.0 1.3 1.5 0.7 0.8 1.4 0.6 1.6 6.0 6.5
Lithuania 3.9 1.7 1.1 4.9 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.8 2.9 1.0
Luxembourg 3.4 3.9 2.4 39.7 1.8 1.6 0.4 1.8 1.7 0.5 0.9 2.8 5.3
Mexico 2.8 8.9 5.2 4.4 5.9 0.3 0.3 5.5 1.1 0.3 8.7 5.3 2.2
Morocco 3.5 1.7 1.1 2.2 0.9 0.1 0.0 0.9 0.1 0.0 3.5 1.6 0.3
Netherlands 7.0 4.6 2.1 17.8 2.5 1.9 0.5 2.3 1.7 0.3 3.0 5.7 4.7232 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportTable A8 (continued)
Job creation expectationsThe % of adults 
(aged 18–64) 
starting or 
running a new 
business and 
anticipating 
25% or more 
revenue from 
outside their 
country The % of adults starting a new 
business with products or 
services that are either new 
to their area, new to their 
country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business using technology or processes 
that are either new to their area, new 
to their country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business having customers only within 
their local area, only within their country, 
and those having international customers
0 jobs 1–5 jobs6 or 
more 
jobsNew to 
their areaNew to 
their 
countryNew to 
the worldNew to 
their areaNew to their 
countryNew to the 
world Local only National International
Norway 3.4 1.9 1.6 14.8 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.2 0.5 2.0 2.8 1.7
Oman 7.4 1.8 1.4 5.1 1.1 0.4 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.0 4.3 4.4 1.7
Panama 6.4 16.1 8.8 5.3 8.9 2.3 1.0 9.8 2.4 1.3 7.9 17.9 4.3
Poland 0.7 1.5 0.4 2.4 0.7 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.1 0.0 1.4 1.0 0.2
Puerto Rico 4.0 10.5 7.8 10.2 3.5 2.2 1.4 4.2 2.4 0.9 2.5 12.0 7.4
Qatar 4.3 1.7 8.2 11.9 2.2 1.9 0.6 2.9 2.0 0.7 2.9 6.9 3.7
Republic of 
Korea0.8 7.8 1.6 1.9 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.8 0.5 0.0 0.4 8.5 1.3
Romania 2.2 2.1 1.5 7.3 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.0 3.1 1.9 0.7
Saudi Arabia 3.6 14.3 7.5 5.3 6.2 0.1 0.0 6.1 0.1 0.0 12.2 11.4 1.7
Slovak 
Republic4.3 2.3 4.1 10.0 1.7 0.7 0.2 1.6 1.2 0.3 2.8 4.0 3.7
Slovenia 3.5 2.3 1.3 25.6 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.8 0.6 0.8 2.5 3.7
South Africa 4.4 4.3 2.4 13.1 2.5 1.1 0.2 3.2 1.0 0.2 4.2 5.0 1.8
Spain 4.4 1.7 0.7 17.9 1.1 0.7 0.4 1.0 0.7 0.5 2.4 1.8 2.1
Sweden 4.9 2.9 1.5 20.4 1.5 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.0 0.7 1.8 4.0 2.7
Switzerland 5.6 3.2 1.5 19.5 1.7 1.0 0.7 1.4 0.6 0.6 3.2 3.0 3.6
Thailand 6.4 9.6 7.6 8.5 5.2 1.6 0.3 4.9 1.7 0.2 1.7 16.3 5.5
United 
Kingdom4.7 4.1 3.0 19.4 2.3 0.3 0.9 1.4 0.4 0.7 2.3 5.1 4.2
United States 4.5 6.0 4.2 18.4 2.9 1.6 0.8 2.7 1.0 0.4 4.0 6.2 4.0
Uruguay 7.5 12.4 6.3 2.8 6.1 1.7 0.9 5.6 2.1 0.5 10.5 10.8 3.1
Venezuela 4.5 13.5 4.7 2.7 4.6 0.5 0.5 4.3 0.8 0.5 11.4 8.5 1.9233 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportJob creation expectationsThe % of adults 
(aged 18–64) 
starting or 
running a new 
business and 
anticipating 
25% or more 
revenue from 
outside their 
country The % of adults starting a new 
business with products or 
services that are either new 
to their area, new to their 
country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business using technology or processes 
that are either new to their area, new 
to their country or new to the worldThe % of adults starting or running a new 
business having customers only within 
their local area, only within their country, 
and those having international customers
0 jobs 1–5 jobs6 or 
more 
jobsNew to 
their areaNew to 
their 
countryNew to 
the worldNew to 
their areaNew to their 
countryNew to the 
world Local only National International
Norway 3.4 1.9 1.6 14.8 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.2 0.5 2.0 2.8 1.7
Oman 7.4 1.8 1.4 5.1 1.1 0.4 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.0 4.3 4.4 1.7
Panama 6.4 16.1 8.8 5.3 8.9 2.3 1.0 9.8 2.4 1.3 7.9 17.9 4.3
Poland 0.7 1.5 0.4 2.4 0.7 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.1 0.0 1.4 1.0 0.2
Puerto Rico 4.0 10.5 7.8 10.2 3.5 2.2 1.4 4.2 2.4 0.9 2.5 12.0 7.4
Qatar 4.3 1.7 8.2 11.9 2.2 1.9 0.6 2.9 2.0 0.7 2.9 6.9 3.7
Republic of 
Korea0.8 7.8 1.6 1.9 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.8 0.5 0.0 0.4 8.5 1.3
Romania 2.2 2.1 1.5 7.3 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.0 3.1 1.9 0.7
Saudi Arabia 3.6 14.3 7.5 5.3 6.2 0.1 0.0 6.1 0.1 0.0 12.2 11.4 1.7
Slovak 
Republic4.3 2.3 4.1 10.0 1.7 0.7 0.2 1.6 1.2 0.3 2.8 4.0 3.7
Slovenia 3.5 2.3 1.3 25.6 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.8 0.6 0.8 2.5 3.7
South Africa 4.4 4.3 2.4 13.1 2.5 1.1 0.2 3.2 1.0 0.2 4.2 5.0 1.8
Spain 4.4 1.7 0.7 17.9 1.1 0.7 0.4 1.0 0.7 0.5 2.4 1.8 2.1
Sweden 4.9 2.9 1.5 20.4 1.5 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.0 0.7 1.8 4.0 2.7
Switzerland 5.6 3.2 1.5 19.5 1.7 1.0 0.7 1.4 0.6 0.6 3.2 3.0 3.6
Thailand 6.4 9.6 7.6 8.5 5.2 1.6 0.3 4.9 1.7 0.2 1.7 16.3 5.5
United 
Kingdom4.7 4.1 3.0 19.4 2.3 0.3 0.9 1.4 0.4 0.7 2.3 5.1 4.2
United States 4.5 6.0 4.2 18.4 2.9 1.6 0.8 2.7 1.0 0.4 4.0 6.2 4.0
Uruguay 7.5 12.4 6.3 2.8 6.1 1.7 0.9 5.6 2.1 0.5 10.5 10.8 3.1
Venezuela 4.5 13.5 4.7 2.7 4.6 0.5 0.5 4.3 0.8 0.5 11.4 8.5 1.9234 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global Report“To make a 
difference in 
the world” “To build great 
wealth or very 
high income” “To continue 
a family 
tradition” “To earn a 
living because 
jobs are 
scarce” 
Brazil 76.5 66.6 36.3 74.1
Canada 62.3 69.1 41.6 67.2
Chile 57.6 60.1 28.0 73.6
China 18.2 42.0 28.5 69.0
Colombia 48.5 53.5 35.4 80.4
Croatia 35.5 54.3 24.7 59.1
Cyprus 39.7 85.4 27.1 65.5
Ecuador 42.7 40.2 41.0 90.8
Estonia 33.4 39.9 17.4 54.6
France 19.9 43.7 17.5 43.2
Germany 50.4 56.3 31.4 46.7
Greece 26.1 55.6 34.6 72.3
Guatemala 80.6 84.7 52.4 89.4
Hungary 45.8 80.1 30.3 89.8
India 83.8 81.0 75.2 87.8
Iran 37.3 94.7 18.5 66.9
Israel 38.3 75.0 23.1 48.0
Italy 35.3 56.1 31.5 58.2
Jordan 20.7 60.6 26.4 95.1
Latvia 43.5 43.5 29.6 64.0
Lithuania 42.4 52.0 22.4 83.7
Luxembourg 50.6 46.6 32.7 47.2
Mexico 62.8 55.6 55.1 81.7
Morocco 18.2 50.2 25.4 80.9
Netherlands 47.7 45.4 25.9 38.2
Norway 37.4 34.3 19.4 25.3
Oman 42.3 64.3 38.3 63.8
Panama 68.0 55.4 51.2 78.4
Poland 20.5 39.6 9.7 62.8Table A9. The motivation to start a business (% of Total early-stage Entrepreneurial 
Activity who somewhat or strongly agree)235 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global Report“To make a 
difference in 
the world” “To build great 
wealth or very 
high income” “To continue 
a family 
tradition” “To earn a 
living because 
jobs are 
scarce” 
Puerto Rico 69.3 47.3 31.1 64.5
Qatar 48.6 77.4 38.4 62.7
Republic of Korea 3.9 82.6 5.4 28.3
Romania 66.6 77.8 35.7 87.5
Saudi Arabia 70.6 90.9 72.2 90.9
Slovak Republic 37.1 37.6 24.3 70.4
Slovenia 56.1 53.6 29.0 49.1
South Africa 61.4 64.9 47.2 69.4
Spain 37.6 37.2 21.7 57.1
Sweden 43.1 53.7 26.4 29.1
Switzerland 53.6 39.2 8.8 40.6
Thailand 50.3 78.7 66.9 82.0
United Kingdom 58.8 66.6 20.5 61.4
United States 63.7 66.7 35.0 62.5
Uruguay 39.7 51.1 32.7 69.2
Venezuela 68.4 53.7 52.5 91.0236 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportIncome levelNumber of Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions 
(EFCs) scored as 
sufficient or better (≥5) NECI score
Argentina Level B 3 3.9
Brazil Level C 2 3.8
Canada Level A 5 4.8
Chile Level B 4 4.6
China (PRC) Level C 8 5.4
Colombia Level C 3 4.1
Croatia Level B 2 4.3
Cyprus Level B 1 4.0
Ecuador Level C 2 3.9
Estonia Level B 11 5.9
France Level A 7 4.9
Germany Level A 4 4.8
Greece Level B 3 4.6
Guatemala Level C 4 3.8
Hungary Level B 4 4.5
India Level C 13 6.5
Iran Level C 0 2.8
Israel Level B 3 4.0
Italy Level A 1 4.5
Japan Level B 3 4.4
Jordan Level C 5 4.7
Latvia Level B 6 4.9
Lithuania Level B 12 6.1
Luxembourg Level A 2 4.6
Mexico Level C 3 3.9
Morocco Level C 3 4.3
Netherlands Level A 13 5.9
Norway Level A 3 4.7
Oman Level B 8 5.4Table A10. National Entrepreneurship Context Index and number of Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions (EFCs) scored as sufficient or better (score ≥5)237 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportIncome levelNumber of Entrepreneurial 
Framework Conditions 
(EFCs) scored as 
sufficient or better (≥5) NECI score
Panama Level B 3 4.2
Poland Level B 3 4.2
Puerto Rico Level B 4 4.2
Qatar Level A 12 5.9
Republic of Korea Level A 12 5.8
Romania Level B 3 4.3
Saudi Arabia Level A 12 6.3
Slovak Republic Level B 2 4.0
Slovenia Level A 4 4.8
South Africa Level C 1 3.6
Spain Level B 1 3.8
Sweden Level A 3 4.7
Switzerland Level A 9 5.5
Thailand Level C 3 4.2
Ukraine Level C 4 4.3
United Arab Emirates Level A 13 7.6
United Kingdom Level A 5 4.6
United States Level A 3 4.8
Uruguay Level B 4 4.3
Venezuela Level C 3 3.2238 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2022/2023 Global ReportSponsor GEM
Most stakeholders want to advance entrepreneurial activity. But it is difficult to make 
informed decisions without having the right data. Global Entrepreneurship Monitor fills 
this void. Watch this short video to learn why many organizations — such as Babson 
College, Cartier Women’s Initiative, Fribourg School of Management, Shopify and the 
Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative — sponsor GEM, the world’s longest-running 
study of entrepreneurship. (Click on the image or go to https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=UAFWuMSUxJE.)This Global Report is made possible thanks to the passion, dedication 
and efforts of 49 GEM National Teams from around the world.Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) is a consortium of national 
country teams, primarily associated with top academic institutions, 
that carries out survey-based research on entrepreneurship around 
the world. GEM is the only global research source that collects data 
on entrepreneurship directly from individual entrepreneurs. GEM’s 
Adult Population Survey (APS) provides analysis on the characteristics, 
motivations and ambitions of individuals starting businesses, as well as 
social attitudes towards entrepreneurship. The National Expert Survey 
(NES) looks at the national context in which individuals start businesses. 
The unique GEM tools and data benefit numerous stakeholder groups:
• Academics are able to apply unique approaches to studying 
entrepreneurship at the national level;
• Policymakers are able to make better-informed decisions to help 
their entrepreneurial ecosystems thrive;
• Entrepreneurs have better knowledge on where to invest and 
influence;
• Sponsors collaborate with GEM to advance their organizational 
interests;
• International organizations leverage the entrepreneurial insights 
from GEM through reports and events.
In numbers, GEM is:
• 25 years of data;
• 170,000+ interviews a year;
• 120+ economies;
• 370+ specialists in entrepreneurship research;
• 150+ academic and research institutions;
• 150+ funding institutions.
GEM began in 1999 as a joint project between Babson College (USA) and 
London Business School (UK). The consortium has become the richest 
resource of information on entrepreneurship, publishing a range of 
global, national and “special topic” reports on an annual basis.